"REIMBURSALS"

   The following is the SneezyMUD reimbursal policy as of March 17th, 1993.

   Unlike some other MUDs, SneezyMUD will reimburse in situations caused by
faulty coding and/or a failure in the mud.  A small list of when you can and
can't ask for reimbursment follows.

When you can ask for reimbursal :

1) Total equipment loss due to rent failure. 

    This doesn't happen often, if ever. This type of request will be
    checked into before reimbursal is given.

Thats really about it.

When you shouldn't ask for reimbursal :

1) Any problems with linkdeath : Linkdeath, and other link and net related 
       problems are not cause for reimbursal.

2) The "I think one item has disappeared syndrome" :
      If you seem to be missing one item, or hink that is the case, go get it
      again. If you got it once you can go get it again.

3) At NO time will any gold and/or coi nage EVER be reimbursed.

4) Exp reimbursals will have to be ok'ed by a level 59 god or higher. the
     same rules apply to exp as to all other reimbursal procedures.

5) As this reimbursal policy is being written, the monster structure on 
     SneezyMUD is slowly changing from one of "make a monster that can
     kill you in three hits" to one of, "make a monster that can outsmart
     a player". There will be monsters in the game that are item hunters
     and/or reposession monsters. If you lose any item to these monsters
     it is of course non-reimbursabal. Monsters are being lessened in power
     and greatened in Wit and intelligence. This should make for a much more
     interesting game, and much less of the item hogging, I am better than you
     type of game-attitude.



Any situations not covered in this, are open to litigation on a personal
basis. These are the rules, they are hopefully clear and fair. Reimbursal
is a headache for players and Gods. Lets try to keep it to a minimum.


#
"NEWBIE"

A
   Hello and welcome to SneezyMUD. There are many areas designed for
new players. These areas contain great places to adventure and learn
the game for low levels.

  The Following areas are classified as newbie areas. These areas will
    for the most part contain no aggressive monsters :

1) The Zoo (South of the dump in midgaard)
2) The shire (Two west from the west gate of midgaard, then north)
3) The chessboard (Due west from the common square of Midgaard)
4) The Gnome Village (Due west (about 20 paces) from the market square)
5) Moria(This area is full of aggresive monsters, but is for low to mid levels)

 There are other areas with monsters for new player to kill. These can be found
by each player themseleve.


Good luck, and happy adventuring.

#
"WEB"
    Web will make a mob stay put. It will reduce their hitroll as well.
The stronger the mob, the more chance of it breaking out of your webs.
A mob or PC suffering from web will have to save in order to flee.  Failure to
save holds you in place.
 
ex. cast 'web' spiderman
 
# 
"ASTRAL WALK"
 
   Astral walk is the opposite of recall. It will take you to any PC currently
in the game.  
 
ex. cast 'astral walk' Brutius  (not possible as Brutius is immortal)

#
"DISINTIGRATE"
 
   This is the most powerful offensive spell known to magic users.  It is only
usable by someone with an intense devotion to the magical arts. (i.e. solo
class)  The spell inflicts (level d15) points of damage when successful.
 
#
"SYNOSTODWEOMER"
 
   This cheritable spell takes half of your present hit points and transfers
them to whomever you cast it upon.  
 
#
"VAMPIRIC TOUCH"
 
   When an anti-paladin casts this spell, it sucks a moderate amount of energy
from whomever it is cast upon.  This energy is added to the black knight's
hit points.
 
#
"LIFE LEECH"
 
   This area affect spell sucks a moderate amount of energy from everyone in
the room.  The energy drained is then added to the anti-paladins hit points.
It is a more powerful version of vampiric touch.

#
"MESSAGE"


Use this command to turn off all fight message when in a large group
other than the messages of you hitting, and/or you getting hit. This
should help when in a large group.

#
"MONK DAMAGE"
This is a list of the bare hand damage a monk does at various levels.  A monk
must not be wielding a weapon.
 
Level  Damage     Level  Damage     Level  Damage     Level  Damage
 1- 3   1d6       15-19   2d5       30-34   5d4       42-44   6d5
 4- 5   1d7       20-21   3d5       35-36   5d5       45-49   6d6
 6-11   1d8       22-26   3d6       37-41   5d6        50     7d7
12-14   2d4       27-29   4d5d
 
See also: MONKATTACK
#
"QUIVERING PALM QUIV"
 
  Quivering palm is a fabled monk attack.. It can only be done 1 time per
week, and only on an opponent of the same level or lower, with less than
2*the monks max hit points.   If the roll is successful, the target dies
instantly
#
"SPRING LEAP SPRINGLEAP"
 
  Allows you to attack from a sitting position, i.e. after you have been
bashed.  You attack, and stand up, all in the same motion. (monk skill)
 
#
"READ MAGIC"
  Allows the non-cleric or mage to read magic scrolls.
#
"FIND TRAPS"
Enables you to detect the presence of traps in a room.
 
See also: SPELL FIND TRAPS
#
"SAFE FALL"
 
  Safe fall is a monk skill that allows them to fall from any height, and
fail to die.  They will be stunned, and badly wounded, but they will not
die  (if they make the roll)
#
"SPY SPYING"
  Spying helps a thief character gain information about the world around 
him/her.  After one has typed 'spy', one can look in various directions,
and given that there is an exit in that direction, and nothing blocking
the way (like a closed door), then the contents of the other room will
be displayed.
 
   It also helps when attempting to value an item carried by another 
person.  Usually, it will tell that person that you are looking at a particular
item.. however, if you successfully spy, they won't notice.
#
"DOORBASH"
 
  Doorbashing is a skill that allows one to open locked doors.  One must
refer to the door by name, not the direction of travel.  For example
doorbash gate
doorbash door north
etc.
 
  Success means that the door is unlocked and opened and the attempter is placed
in the room on the other side of the door, while failure causes the attempter 
to be stunned for a short time, and take a fair amount of damage in the process.
#
"DISARM"
 
   There are two kinds of disarm.  Disarming weapons and disarming traps.
 
If one types "disarm monstername", then, if the player has the disarm
weapon skill, and successfully uses it, the monster's weapon will fly from
its hand/tentacle, etc.   
 
If one types "disarm trapname", if the player has the disarm traps skill,
one can attempt to disable the trap.. failure indicates a high probability
that the trap will be sprung on the player attempting the disarm.
 
#
"MONKATTACKS"
The formula used for the number of attacks that an unarmed monk will get per
round will be: (level-1)/16 +1   --The fractional portion will provide the
probability of getting an extra attack each round. (ie. if you were VERY
lucky, a 2nd level monk could get 2 attacks every round, but probably won't)
 
[a few samples: Level--#Att]
 1--1.00    5--1.25    9--1.50   13--1.75   17--2.00   21--2.25   25--2.50
29--2.75   33--3.00   37--3.25   41--3.50   45--3.75   49--4.00
 
See also: MONK DAMAGE
#
"SWITCH"
  Allows you to switch opponents.  if you are attacking X and want to attack
        Y, type 'hit Y'.  It will check against your Switch skill, and if
        you make it, you stop attacking X, and attack Y.. if you fail, you
        stop attacking anyone.
#
"DODGE"
 
        dodge allows fighters and monks to avoid damage in combat.  not 
        a lot -- 1-3 points, but every little bit helps.  Each time you
        are hit, the game checks your dodge skill, which does not improve
        with use, only with practice.  if you make it, the damage is 
        reduced by 1-3 points.. note- this applies to physical attacks
        only.
 
#
"RETREAT"
        allows a fighter, thief or monk to get out of combat without 
        having to panic and flee. if you make the roll, you WILL leave
        the room, and you lose no exp for doing it.  
 
        this skill gets better through use.
 
        this skill does not have a name of its own, but is built in
        to the 'flee' command.
 
#
"FEIGN DEATH"
        allows a monk to pretend that they are dead.  The people/things
        that are attacking you will stop fighting you, and may leave you
        alone completely, although it is best to leave the room as soon
        as possible.
#
"RADIO"


      Radios are the new form of communication. They are held(in a new radio
equipment slot) There will be more than one type of radio, and the costs will
vary with the technology. The most expensive ones will have up to 9 or 10
different channels to choose from, while the cheap ones will have 2 or 3. And
there will be many in-between. The radio shop is in the mall.

   Shout is still in the game for emergencys. Shout may be used ONCE to
tell the mud about a piece of equipment being auctioned.

  i.e. JowBlow shouts 'Longsword for sale...tune in channel 1'

Grouptell is also still in the game for telling things amongst your groups.
The syntax for that is 'gt'.


see also SEND CHANNEL

#
"HOSPITAL"

    The hospital consists of three rooms. The waiting room, is the entrance
to the hospital. If the hospital is too full, this room will live up to its 
name. The emergency room, is a room where you can buy back a total healing
for a pretty penny. Type list in this room to see how much it will cost. 
The main room of the hospital is a super-regeneration room. Anyone in this room
will gain back twice as many hit points per tick than normal. Sitting in this
room will cost you a small fee of 10 coins per level per tick.

#
"PEACEFUL"

   All peaceful rooms are rooms of refuge from angry mobiles. Although these
rooms can be used to stay away from hunting mobiles, you may not heal any hit
points, mana, or movement points in these rooms.

#
"SEARCH"

   Search is a thief skill. It is used to search for secret doors in rooms.
All you have to do is type search in any room. If you are learned enough, and
find it, search will tell you not only that there is a secret door, but 
which direction and the name of the door.

#
"SEND"

    The send command send messages on your new radios.

#
"CHANNEL"

  The channel command has two functions. Without an argument, by typing channel
you will get a listing of all players whom you can see, and what channel they
are tuned into(granted they are using a radio at all of course).
With an argument, channel can be used to change the channel your radio is on.

   i.e. channel 9(changes to channel 9(if your radio has that channel).

#
"BOW"


       New bows work kinda like the guns. The ARROW's are what determines the
 damage on the bow. Shooting them is a skill learned best by Ranger's.


  Syntax for shooting and reloading bows.


  To reload: bload bow arrow
  To fire  : fire <victim>   (You must be holding the bow to fire it)




#
"ALIAS"


     Aliases are now in.

  Syntax for them is as follows :

  alias <abbreviation> <function> (i.e. alias tg tickle guard) Sets alias.
  alias <abbreviation>            Removes alias.
  alias                           Lists current aliases.


  Aliases WILL be saved when you quit/rent/get caught in crash!

#
"BODYSLAM"


     Bodyslam is another in the line of warrior skills. This skill does 
a lot of damage when successful. An unsuccessful bodyslam results in
damage beign incurred on the character, as he/she falls on their face
in the missed bodyslam attempt. A successful bodyslam uses a lot of vitality
poinrt(moves) since it is so straining on the person. Player and monster
WEIGHT has a lot to do with this skill. If for some reason, you think
your weight is too low or high, please contact a god immediately.


#
"DEATHSTROKE"


    Deathstroke is the most powerful warrior skill. A successful deathstroke
will result in loss of mega damage to the opponent. Unfortunately, deathstroke
is not without its risks. A missed attack at the persons vitals will result
in a long pause, and also will result in the monster getting an attack back at 
YOUR vitals!(fair is fair?) A missed attack will also result in the loss of all
movement points.


#
"TRIPLE"


   Warriors who have no magic classes, can now attempt a triple attack. Warriors
over level 30 will have a chance at a triple attack, based on the level they
have learned double attack, and a dice roll.


#
"DOUBLE"


    Double attack is nowattainable by warrior, rangers, thieves, paladins
and antipaladin. The following chart shows the maximum amount that each class
can learn the skill, and the minimum level that they really have a good chance
to hit twice a round.

   Class              Max            Level
   -----              ---            -----
  1) Warrior          90%            6th
  2) Paladin          75%            10th
  3) Ranger           60%            10th
  4) Thief            50%            12th
  5) Anti-Paladin     40%            12th
 
#
"BREW"


   Brew is a mage/cleric skill. Brew lets you brew your own potions. Three
objects are needed for each potion you can brew. They are scatter around the
mud. Some will be VERY easy to get, so you low levels can get them as well.

ex. brew fireshield (Yes fireshield is back, and only in a brewed potion!)


     Items for sacrifice :
  
    Potion                        Sacrifices
    ______                        __________

    1. Heal                  Eye of newt, Parsley, a bag of bat powder
    2. Sanctuary             A bull scrotum, basil clove, hair from a fly
    3. Full Heal             Bottle of frog sweat,oak leaf,parrot claw
    4. Fly                   Vial of rat blood,ostrich feather, deer antler
    5. True Sight            human eyeball, carrot, bag of salt
    6. Fireshield!           hot pepper, bat wing, llama tongue
    7. Second Wind           silk, goat milk, ogre toe


#
"SCRIBE"


   Scribe is very similar to brew. Mages and clerics can write their own 
scrolls. With a pen, paper, and three items to sacrifice, you can make the 
scrolls.

ex. scribe sanctuary(Makes a sanc scroll!)


#
"EQUALIZER"


A New sword has crossed the land. The equalizer has a chance to behead your
opponent. The less hit points the opponent has, the better chance of a behead.
The only catch is you have to fight the mob with the equalizer to get it!


#
"PALADINS"


  Paladins are the class that is considered the hardest and most challenging
to play. Since paladins must stay close to god to retain their powers, align-
ment below 350 can be devastating for a paladin. When a paladin is above 350
alignment tho, they have not only warrior skills, but healing powers as well.



#
"ANTIPALADINS"



  Antipaladins are the class that represents everything that is crude and
evil. Like the paladins, antipaladins must retain a certain alignment to
reain all of their powers. If antipaladins stay below -350 alignment, they
not only have some thief and some warrior skills, but also have some nice
offensive spells.



# 
"RANGER"


  Rangers are the class of nature. Rangers have abilities in the outdoors. Rangers are the only class that can practice track at its guildmaster 
instead of at the ninja master. Rangers also have no armor restrictions.
Rangers get cleric spells, warrior skills, and a few thief skills to boot.
Rangers are very fun to play.


#
"HEADBUTT"

   Headbutt is a level 15 warrior skill. It does damage based on level
and your strength. It is a pretty powerful skill, does a lot of damage,
but pauses you 6 attack rounds, so use it only when you are healthy.


#
"SUBTERFUGE"

   Subterfuge is a level 10 thief skill. If subterfuge is correctly used,
any NPC that is hunting or has a hatred, will have it removed. 

 ex.  JoeBlow attacks the battle master. Joe has to flee. The battle master
      is now hunting Joe, and wants to kill him. If a thief successfully
      does a subterfuge on the battle master, he will totally forget who
      he is hunting.

#
"CURE SERIOUS"


   Cure serious heals 2d8 +2 hit point per spell.

ex. cast 'cure serious' TheDeadGuy

#
"SLEEP"

   Pretty much self-explanatory. It will put any character or mob that
doesnt save to sleep.

ex.  cast 'sleep' kalas

#
"COLOR"

  Color is for users with ansi color monitor capabilities. With color, many
aspects of the mud, including, certain words, your prompts, and tells to
you when you are fighting, will be in color, to help you keep things straight.
And it also looks very pretty as well.

#
"GT"


   Gt is the grouptell command. You use this command to tell your group 
something. The group members do not have to be in the same room to hear
a grouptell.

ex. gt I had to flee guys, ill be back in a sec.

#
"SPLIT"

  Split will take an amount entered by the user, and split that amount 
amongst group members.


ex. Your group has 4 members.


    split 10000

Each member gets 2500 coins in the transaction.

#
"GOGGLES"

   You can now wear goggles on your face. There will be goggles of all types
soon.(infravision, true sight, sneak and hide)

#
"EARRINGS"


    An earring can be worn in your ear. 


#
"CASINO"

  The casino is where you can take it easy from killing and stealing and gamble
a little money away. Craps, Blackjack, Roulette, and slot machines are avail-
able to play. Money lost in the casino is of course not refundable.


SEE ALSO: BET STAY PEEK 

#
"BET"

  Bet is used to bet money in the casino.


ex. bet 10000000 coins

#
"STAY"

   Stay is used in the blackjack game. It will stay your cards, and let the 
dealer take cards to end the game.

#
"PEEK"

  Used to look at your cards in the middle of a blackjack game.

#
"CAUSE SERIOUS"
#
"FLY"

  Fly will lift your feet off the ground, and take a load off of your tired
feet. While flying, you can go on any water surface, and also any area only
takes one movement point per move.

#
"GROUP FLY"

  This spell will affect your whole group with the fly spell.

#
"KNOW ALIGN"

  This spell will tell yo the alignment of a certain player or mobile.

ex. Cast 'know align' paladin

#
"KNOCK"

  Knock is a mage spell, used to try to knock open locked doors. It is similar
to pick for thieves, but it takes mana to cast each time.

ex. cast 'knock' chest

#
"ALLSPELL"

  Allspell gives you a list of every spell, along with the mana needed to 
cast the spell, and the level that each spellcaster class gets the spell.

#
"REPORT"

  Report will tell the room your status(hp, mana and movement)

#
"PORTAL"


    Portal is a high level mage/cleric spell, that allows a person to make
a portal to a certain mob or player, of which anyone can enter. Portals last
for 5 ticks, and the spell cost 100 mana.

ex.  cast 'portal' demi (Not recommended)
#
"SILENCE"
  
   Silence does basically what it says. It silences anyone who has the spell
cast on them. Victims cannot gossip, shout, say, or tell. Use this sparingly
with loudmouths and he like who don't know when to shut up.

ex. cast 'silence' jak

#
"ASTRAL WALK"

   Astral walk is the opposite of recall. It will take you TO a mob.
If the mob is higher in levle than you, your chance of making it to him
are less than for a lower level monster.

ex. cast 'astral walk' white dragon  (Not recommended)

#
"PARALYZE"

   Paralyze basically does what it says...it paralyzes a foe. If the mob
saves against spells, no paralyzation occurs. Paralyzed monsters can not
fight, move, or use spells.
 
ex. cast 'paralyze' kalas

#
"DISPEL MAGIC"

  Dispel magic will wipe out all spells affecting a certain person or monster.
Dispel magic used on a sanced monster will result in a fight.

ex. If JoeBlow has poison and is cursed.
    cast 'dispel magic' JoeBlow

#
"CREATE LIGHT"
#
"CURE SERIOUS"

  Cure serious heals 2d8 +2 hit points per cast.

#
"METEOR SWARM"

  Meteor swarm is the most powerful offensive spell in the game. It causes
level d10 damage , which is halved if the monster makes a save.

ex. cast 'meteor swarm' wombat
#
"WATER BREATH"

  This spell allows you to move around underwater. 

ex. cast 'water breath' brutius

#
"SHOOT"

  This command is used to fire a gun. The gun must be held to shoot.

ex. shoot demi

SEE ALSO: GUNS, RELOAD

#
"RELOAD"

   This command reloads a gun, if you have the correct bullets in your
inventory.

ex. reload shotgun with shells

SEE ALSO : GUNS, SHOOT

#
"GUNS"

  Guns are a held weapon, that requires ammo to shoot. Ammunition can be bought
at the ammo store, found somewhere in midgaard.

SEE ALSO : SHOOT, RELOAD

#
"AUTHORIZE"


  auth Newbie yes        (lets them into the game)
  auth Newbie no         (denies them from the game)

  auth Newbie anything else  (a message to the Newbie)
#
HOUSEAUCTION

   There are no houses currently on the market.

#
FULL_HEAL FULL
   Full heal is a new level 30 cleric spell. It gives back all hp up to 1d8 
with a max of 200(twice as much for the max for heal).
#
"HOUSES HOUSE"

   Houses allow the character who owns it to rent for free.  The character
enters the house, and types rent,and all the stuff is stored.  No one else can
rent in that room, just the owner.  Multi-room houses are legal.  Note:
  No 'gates' will be allowed, the house must be geographically correct.
(i.e. all entrances and exits must be close to each other).

  As a reward for godhood, Players who make godhood will be able to 
purchase houses at a fixed rate (if they so desire) instead of the auction 
price.

#
"MAYOR"

   A character who kills the mayor in single combat earns the right to 
   be the mayor for 1 realworld week.  (from the day of the fight)

   The fight has to be witnessed by a 54th level god (or higher).

   Player cannot flee from combat.  Flight indicates loss, and the player
   cannot try again for 1 real day.

   Mages and clerics can use NPC followers.  No PC assistance (or god)
   will be allowed.

   Once the mayor has been killed, no other fights will be honored for
   the period of one week.. ignorance of the fact that the mayor position
   is still taken is of no consequence.

   The mayor of the week will have her (or his) name placed on the 
   message of the day.  If that person reaches immortality during
   that week, they will be removed from the mayor list, and the position
   will once again be open.

   I am also considering allowing the mayor of the week to call for
   cityguards, but i have not decided.

#
"RESURRECTION"

 if the spell is cast on the corpse of a player:

	Resurrection requires a sacrifice of 150,000 coins, and the
  beneficiary loses 1 con point permanently.. after the con reaches
  3, no more ressurection can occur.

IMPORTANT:  The dead character has to stay OUT of the game until
	he/she is resurrected.  If he/she reenters the game, he/she
	cannot be resurrected.  All the way out. I.E. all the way out of
	telnet.

  The caster is brought to 1 hit point, 1 mana and 1 movement point.

if the spell is cast on the corpse of a monster:

   That monster becomes a loyal follower of the caster, for 36 game hours.


#
"AREAS"
Current Areas:

  Skexies      -- Rugrat    (5-15/10+)  (two parts)
  Lycanthropia     -- Duke  (Mid)
  Bay Isle         -- Duke  (High)
  New Thalos   --  Conner   (all)
  Artica           -- Duke  (5 - 20)
  Temple Labyrinth -- Duke  (5  - 10)
  Mistamere                 (1  - 10)
  Temple Annex              (1  - 10)
  Sewers                    (5  - 20)
  Moria                     (1  - 20)
  Shire                     (3  - 15)
  Thalos                    (10 - 20)
  Dwarven Kingdom           (10 - 30)
  Drow                      (20 - 40) 
  Zoo                       (1 - 25)
  Orshingal     -- Poohbear (10 - 30)
  Ivory tower   -- Exxon    (1 - 9)
  Abyss         -- Kaylor   (25 - 50)
  The Pyramid   -- Conner   (15 - 30)
  Arachnos      -- Duke     (5 - 50)
  Castle Python -- Melkor   (5 - 30)
  
NOTE!!!!!!!!
	Those numbers are ROUGH!  And just because an area is advertised
for X level does not necessarily mean that X level can wipe out the area!!!
Use COMMON SENSE.  ASK people about the areas, find experienced people to
group with.  Don't get cocky, and you'll live longer.   Be social, and you
will live longer.  Ask questions, and you will live longer. Don't ask a God,
you won't live.

P.S. if anyone feels these numbers are not accurate, post a message.

#
"SPRAY"

Level 40 cleric spell :

Will heal everyone in the room that is in your group(including the castor)
Costs 100 mana.
 
#
"MONSUM"

   the various incarnations of this spell create monsters of the appropriate
   level to serve you as followers for a time.  The time is as long as the
   time that charm person would work on the same creature.

#
"CONTINUAL LIGHT"

   Continual light creates a ball of light which can be held like a 
   torch or lantern to light up the room.

#
"POLY POLYMORPH"

There is a rather long, and involved list of monsters that you can
choose from, and the list expands as you get higher in level.

the monsters are probably not well balanced right now, you will 
undoubtedly find some that are too strong, or some that are too
weak in comparison to the others in the room

I would be very grateful if you tell me which ones are too strong
and which ones are too weak.

Correct syntax and format for this is:
	
	cast 'polymorph' <creature_type>

where you replace <creatue_type> with one of the creatures listed below.

To return to your character, type the command:  RETURN
If you switch into a humanoid monster, you can cast spells if you are a
	magic-user or cleric, and you can steal if you are a thief.

Now, here is the list:

    name       level of caster 
  {"goblin",      4*
  {"parrot",      4 (blue)
  {"frog",        4
  {"gnoll",       6*
  {"parrot",      6 (black)
  {"lizard",      6
  {"ogre",        8*
  {"parrot",      8 (red)
  {"wolf",        8
  {"spider",      9 
  {"beast",       9 (displacer)
  {"minotaur",    9*
  {"snake",       10 (rattle)
  {"bull",        10
  {"warg",        10
  {"sapling",     12*
  {"ogre-maji",   12*
  {"black",       12 (dragon)
  {"jackalwere",  12*
  {"troll",       14*
  {"crocodile",   14
  {"mindflayer",  14* (junior)
  {"giant",       16* (hill)
  {"shark",       16
  {"blue",        16 (dragon)
  {"enfan",       18* (blue)
  {"lamia",       18*
  {"drider",      18
  {"wyvern",      20
  {"mindflayer",  20*(senior)
  {"spider",      20 (bird)

The ones with * are humanoid.
#
"ACID BLAST"

   Acid blast creates a powerful blast of acid that does 1d6 per level
damage.  The only advantage to this spell over lightning bolt is that
fewer things are immune to acid.

#
"CACAODEMON"

  This spell is wreathed in mystery. The only sure knowledge about it
is that it is cast in the following manner:

	cast 'cacaodemon' one 
		.
		.
		.
	cast 'cacaodemon' six

#
FAERIE

Faerie fire adversely affects the targets armor class by 1 point, making
the target easier to hit.

Faerie fog causes all invisible creatures in the room (who do not fail
their save) to become visible.
#
MINOR

Minor creation creates an object, either a raft, a bag, a sword, a shield, 
a barrel or a piece of bread.
ex:
   cast 'minor' raft

#
"TRUE SIGHT"

True sight allows you to see hidden creatures, and invisible creatures,
it is a (temporary) cure for blindness, and allows you to see in the
dark, or will soon.

#
"CONJURE"

Conjuring elementals involves sacrificing an object:
red stone for fire elementals
pale blue stone for water elementals
grey stone for earth elementals
clear stone for air elementals
#
"CALM"

   Calm makes an aggressive monster non-aggressive

#
"STONE SKIN"

   Stone skin makes your skin stone-like, improves your armor class
and makes you resistant to piercing attacks.

#
"SPELL SPELLS"
Mage                                    Cleric

First Level:                            First Level:
Detect Magic                            Armor
Magic Missile                           Bless
Shield                                  Cause Light
Shocking Grasp                          Cure Light
Turn                                    Detect Evil
Ventriloquate                           Turn

Second Level:                           Second Level:
Detect Invisibility                     Create Water
Sleep                                   Detect Poison
Refresh

Third Level:                            Third Level:
Chill Touch                             Create Water
Fly                                     Detect Magic
Knock                                   Know Alignment
                                        Refresh

Fourth Level:                           Fourth Level:
Armor                                   Cure Blind
Invisibility                            Locate Object
Know Alignment                          Remove Paralysis
Strength
Water Breath
Weakness

Fifth Level:                            Fifth Level:
Burning Hands                           Detect Invisibility
Infravision
Monsum One

Sixth Level:                            Sixth Level:
Dispel Magic                            Blindness
                                        Protection from Evil
                                        Dispel Magic

Seventh Level:                          Seventh Level:
Acid Blast                              Animate Dead
Ice Storm                               Remove Curse
Monsum Two                              Sense Life
Cause Serious
Cure Serious

Eighth Level:                           Eighth Level:
Charm Monster                           Earthquake
Blindness                               Poison
Fear                                    
Second Wind
Teleport

Ninth Level:                            Ninth Level:
Enchant Weapon                          Cause Critical
Lightning Bolt                          Cure Critical
Monsum Three

Tenth Level:                            Tenth Level:
Animate Dead                            Word of Recall
Control Weather

Eleventh Level:                         Eleventh Level:
Colour Spray                            Flamestrike
Cone of Cold
Monsum Four

Twelfth Level:                          Twelfth Level:
Curse                                   Curse
                                        Dispel Evil
                                        Dispel Good

Thirteenth Level:                      Thirteenth Level:
Monsum Five                            Control Weather
                                       
Fourteenth Level:                      Fourteenth Level:
Charm Person                           Fly

Fifteenth Level:                       Fifteenth Level:
Clone                                  Call Lightning
Fireball
Monsum Sixth
Paralyze

Sixteenth Level:                       Sixteenth Level:
                                       Summon

Seventeenth Level:                     Seventeenth Level:
Energy Drain                           Harm
Monsum Seven                           Heal

Eighteenth Level:                      Eighteenth Level:
Summon                                 Succor

Nineteenth Level:                      Nineteenth Level:
                                       FireShield

Twentieth Level:
Meteor Swarm

Twenty First Level:
Succor

#
"SECTOR TYPES"
0 = indoors
1 = city
2 = fields
3 = forest
4 = hills
5 = mountains
6 = water (swimmable)
7 = river (non-swimmable)
8 = air
9 = water
10  desert
#
"CHARM MONSTER"

Very similar to charm person, but allows you to charm monsters too.

#
"ANIMATE DEAD"

  creates a zombie servant who will obey your commands.  It has 
  your level d8 hit points, hits as a 2 HD monster, and is
  immune to piercing weapons.  Cityguards and vampire bats hate 
  zombies, and attack them immediately.

#
REFRESH

  increases the targets movement by 1d4+1 per level, with a mininum
  of 20 points.
#
"SECOND WIND"
  
  increase the targets movement by 1d8+1 per level.

#
TURN

   forces undead of lower level who fail their save against spells to
   flee from you.  The lower they are compared to your level, the more
   likely they are to flee.

#
SHIELD

   creates a shield of magic around the target, some protection, and
   nullifies all magic missile attacks.

#
SUCCOR

   creates a word of recall scroll.

#
WELL OF KNOWLEDGE

   creates a scroll of identify.

#
"DISPEL INVISIBLE"

   Use this spell to eradicate invisibilty. This spell can be used not
   only on people, but also objects. 

ex. cast 'dispel invisible' visor

#
"GRAPPLE"

    Grapple is a level 20 fighter skill. A successful grapple cause the
opponent and you to wrestle on the ground, resulting in a loss of attack
for two rounds. Since monsters with more than one attack are hard to keep
down, they will only be stopped one round.

ex. grapple kalas

#
"THROW"

    This is a level 15 warrior skill. It actually throws a mob out of the room
    If it fails the mob will get pretty angry at you and attack.

    A throw in a direction with no exit, will result in the start of a fight.

ex. Throw kalas east (trys to throw kalas east)

# 
"FARLOOK"

   This spell is used to look at the room of a certain person. It can not
   be cast on mobs, only PC's(actual players)

ex. cast 'farlook' JoeBlow(This will look at the room that JoeBlow is in.)

#
FIRESHIELD

   different from D&D, creates a shield of fire around the target, and makes
   every attack against them do 2 * that damage to the attacker.  Similar
   to sanctuary in duration.
   
#
RACE

Various monsters belong to various races.  For example:  
  Llama and rabbits are of the same race because they are 
    herbivores (cows, horses, etc)
  Dragons are of the same race.
  orcs, gnolls, ogres, giants are all 'giant class' race.
  lycanthropes.
  predators (animals that hunt for food)
  undead
  snakes
  reptiles 
  insects
  spiders
  demons
  devils
  humans, elves, etc...
#
"PICK LOCKS"

Thieves only.
For picking locks. Not all locks can be picked. Example:

> pick door
> pick safe

See Also : OPEN, CLOSE, LOCK, UNLOCK
#
SNEAK

Thieves Only.

Used for sneaking (moving in and out of rooms without anyone taking
notice).  When you type sneak, there is no way to know if you actually
sneak. If you successfully sneak, then you will continue to sneak for
a little while. When you are sneaking, many monsters that would
otherwise attack you will not notice you, allowing you to go places
that no others can get to.

Example:

  > sneak

See Also : HIDE
#
HIDE

Thieves Only.
When you type hide there is a chance that you hide in the room. If
hidden you can only be "sensed" by the "sense life" spell. Even if
sensed your identity will remain hidden. Hide is broken by pressing
return, regardless of whether you typed a command or not.

Example:

  > hide
  Ok.
  >  (you wait for ex. 5 mins and remain hidden for 5 mins)

  >  (You pressed enter and no longer hide)
#
LOOK
For studying your surroundings. Examples:
look                                      
look AT the angel
look IN the bag
look to the south   (or just: look south)

Note that if you LOOK AT CORPSE you will not see its inventory.
To see what is inside a container (e.i. Corpse) use LOOK IN <OBJECT>.

See also : EXAMINE or READ
#
AC "-----------"

Is you armor class, it is defined roughly as follows:

  100 Naked person
    0 Very Heavily armored (Plate mail, and "two shields") 
 -100 Armored battle tank

#
OPEN CLOSE LOCK UNLOCK
Usage (example):
 > open portal
or
 > open portal to the south
   (if there is more than one to choose from)
#
NORTH SOUTH EAST WEST UP DOWN
To walk in a given direction.
#
EAT DRINK SIP TASTE
If you are hungry or thirsty. Examples:
    eat hamburger
    drink beer
    eat bread		/* how boring, visit Andy's Pub! */
    eat sausage
#
WHO
Lists the people currently in the game. Some people may choose to remain
unseen.

WHO GODS will give you a list of all currently active (and visible) gods.
Please consult this list before shouting "Is there a god on?"
#
GIVE
If you feel benevolent, you may give some stuff to someone in need. Example:
give bread to the beggar.
#
SAVE
Save your persona. This includes experience points, strength, gold, etc. 
It also saves your equipment, up to the first 200 items.
#
META METAPHYSICIAN
The metaphysician is a neat little character. He will soon be with us here
at Sneezy. He is basically for all you players who either :
A) already have an immortal. or
B) don't wanan play an immortal.

You will be able to trade in a certain amount of exp for some neat things.

1) one point added to any stat(except con).
2) some amount (yet to be determined) of extra hp or mana points.
3) No more hunger or thirst.
#
STRING
For changing the text-strings associated with objects and characters. The
format is:

string <type> <name> <field> [<string> | <keyword>]

Type is either 'obj' or 'char'.
Field is one of the following(the names may be abbreviated):
Name                  (the call-name of an obj/char - kill giant)
Short                 (for inventory lists (objs) and actions (chars))
Long                  (for when obj/character is seen in room)
Title                 (for players)
Description           (For look at. For objs, must be followed by a keyword)
Delete-description    (only for objs. Must be followed by keyword)

Where a string is expected as the last argument, a newline will make
you enter a string mode, and the game will prompt you for new lines to
the string until you exceed the maximum length for the string or you
end a line with a '@'.
#
LOAD
For loading new objects or characters from the database. The format is:
  load <type> <number>
Where <type> is either 'obj' or 'char', and number is the number of the object
or character you wish to create.
#
INVENTORY
If you are uncertain about what you are carrying, or simply want to check
that no thieves have pilfered from your backpack.

See also: EQUIPMENT
#
EQUIPMENT
When you want to know what armor, weapon, charms etc. you are wearing.

See also: INVENTORY
#
KISS
Well can't you guess ?
#
WEAR
If you want to wear some clothes, armor or the likes.
For example : wear boots

See also: REMOVE, EQUIPMENT
#
WIELD
When you get tired of bashing monsters with your fists, you might consider
wielding a weapon. Example : wield sword

See also: REMOVE, EQUIPMENT
#
SCORE
Whenever you want to check whether you are still alive and healthy
or simply want to see how much money you have left.
#
SAY TELL WHISPER SHOUT ASK
If you consider communicating with other beings, you might be understood
better if you start your sentences with either say,tell,whisper or shout.
Example : say I'm a jerk
          tell unclesam You're dead meat - sucker!

You can use ' as a shorthand for say, as in:

' hello there.
#
BOUNCE
If you feel like bouncing round the room this is just the command for you.
#
FRENCH
Don't you know how they kiss in France ?? - try it !
#
QUI SHUTDOW
Just to prevent accidental quittings and/or shutdowns.
This command does not DO anything, it simply is.
#
SMILE
Whenever you feel like smiling...
#
KILL HIT
A good way to start a fight.
#
KICK
Fighters only.
The success of a kick depends upon how well you are learned. The
higher level you reach the harder you kick. There is one small catch -
whenever you kick (or miss) you will be unable to type any command for
three rounds of 'Violence' - so be sure that you do not need to flee!

Fighters See Also : Rescue, Bash
#
BASH
Fighters only.
  The success of a bash depends upon how well you are learned. To bash
someone is to attempt to 'knock' that person over. If you succeed you
will inflict minor damage, and cause the victim to fall on its rear.
The victim will be unable to issue any commands for 2 rounds of
violence. If you miss you loose your balance and fall.
  A bash makes you unable to type commands for 2 rounds of violence.
Note that hitting a person who is resting/sitting will inflict
1.5*damage.  Fighters See Also : Rescue, Kick
#
RESCUE
Fighters Only.
  A rescue is an attempt to make a monster hit you instead of the
person being rescued. You can only 'turn' one monster for each
attempt. This is highly useful when playing in groups.
#
STEAL

Thief Only.

Use steal to steal gold or items from people. The chance of not
getting caught depends on how well you have practiced steal, and if
the person is asleep.

Due to misuse of the steal command, it now requires at least 1,250 XP
points to steal from other players. You can still steal from monsters
at all levels.


Example:

> steal gold drunk

#
BACKSTAB

Thief only.

Is a way to sneak up on a person, and attempt to place you dagger in
his back, at exactly the point where it does most damage. A successful
backstab gives a damage multiplier, depending on level:

The chance of successfully backstabbing a person depends on how well
you have practiced backstab at your guild.
#
CAST
For "magical" people. If you want to throw a spell at someone or something.
Example : cast 'burning hands' <player>
   Note that the name of the spell must be enclosed by "'"s.

See also : help on each individual spell, for example:
  > help cure ligh
  > help ventri
  > help energy drain
#
DROP
If you lose interest in a carried item, you can drop it on the ground.
Example : drop bottle
  If you feel like getting rid of all your earthly possessions, you
may use "drop all".  Also you can drop 9*bottle, which would drop 9
bottles, but leave the rest in your hands.

See also: GET
#
PURGE
A way to make the world a little cleaner.
Usage:
  purge                         To empty a room of monsters and objects.
  purge <character>             To remove a living thing. Kicks out a player.
  purge <object>                Figure this one out yourself.
#
STAT
  If you are interested in a person and want to find out about
his/her/its skills, strength, mana, hitpoints etc. In addition, 'stat
room' will give you useful information about the room you are in.
#
ORDER
In bars etc you can order things.
#
BUY SELL
Commands for the shops - very useful too !
#
WEATHER
If you are uncertain whether the sun is shining or the rain is pouring down.
#
READ
When you want to read something.
#
REMOVE
If you tire of wearing some armor or wielding a weapon.
Example : remove sword
#
SHOPS
  Shops are places where the adventurer may purchase equipment for his
quests, and where he may sell his treasure if he should manage to
survive the perils with his life and sanity intact. Many shops trade
only in a specific type of merchandise. Thus, a baker may well refuse
to buy your armor, even if it is of high quality!
  To some people, the prospect of obtaining the entire inventory of a
shop by murdering the keeper may appear tempting - but beware: The
shopkeepers are rugged, capable men and women; roughened by years of
trading and, indeed, surviving in a world where the only safe prospect
is death in the end.  (They usually have a few thousand hitpoints and
can shoot through schools).

See also: BUY, SELL, LIST, VALUE
#
SOCIAL ACTIONS
Commands mainly for social interaction:

applaud, beg, bleed, blush, bounce, bow, burp, cackle, chuckle, clap,
comfort, cough, cringe, cry, cuddle, curtsey, dance, daydream, fart,
flip, fondle, french, frown, fume, gasp, giggle, glare, grin, groan,
grope, grovel, growl, hiccup, hold, hop, hug, yawn, kiss, laugh, lick,
love, moan, nibble, nod, nudge, pat, peer, point, poke, ponder, pout,
puke, punch, purr, ruffle, scream, shake, shiver, shrug, sigh, sing,
slap, smirk, smile, snap, snarl, sneeze, snicker, sniff, snore,
snuggle, spank, spit, squeeze, stare, steam, strut, sulk, tackle,
taunt, thank, twiddle, wave, whine, whistle, wiggle, wink, worship

New Socials added by Brut :

Insult, Nuzzle, Accuse, Hiccup, Comb, Massage, Tickle, Yodel, Think, 
HighFive, Bonk, Scold, Drool, Rip, Stretch, Pimp, Belittle, Piledrive, Tap
Flipoff, Pinch, Bite, Moon
#
WIZ
A listing of the commands for immortals (should be unavailable for mortals  :)
#
COMMANDS
A mechanical listing (the code already exists) of the known verbs.
#
WARRIOR FIGHTER
  Warriors are known to have more strength than the average player.
This makes them better at hand-to-hand-combat, as they possess skills
of violence and fighting unequaled by the members of any other class.
However, they lack the ability to use magic of any sort.
  You can improve your skills by using the practice command, in the
room in the swordspeople's guild with the guildmaster (usually the
last room)

See also: PRACTICE
#
THIEF
  Thieves are known to have very special qualities, that no other
class offers.  Many of these qualities can come in handy in many
situations, such as picking locks.  They are not very combat oriented,
however, so do not expect to be able to kill many things by yourself.
The useful aspect of thieves involves their ability to scout ahead,
avoiding monsters, detecting and removing traps and selling and buying
items at the black market.
   You can improve you skills by using the practice command.

See also: PRACTICE
#
CLERIC
  This class gives you the wisdom of peace, blessing and healing,
though it is possible to learn more violent spells.  You can improve
your spells by using the practice command.

See also: PRACTICE
#
"MAGIC USER" WIZARD MAGE
  This is the class of powerful and violent magic, but the magic user
does not control the nature, and can therefore not bless and such. You
can improve your spells by using the practice command.

See also: PRACTICE
#
PRACTICE PRACTISE
  Practice is the way you improve your spells and skills. You must go
to your guildmaster to let him/her help you improve (GAIN).  If you type
practice, you will see which skills you can improve upon, and how good
you already are at these.  You can then use practice <skill>, to
practice the appropriate skill.  You can only practise a certain
amount for each level you gain, and you do not have to use this, it
can be accumulated.

See also: GAIN
#
EXITS
  Gives you a list of the obvious exits from your location. Of course,
the less obvious ones will not show up here - you have to THINK in
order to locate those.

#
LEAVE
  If you feel claustrophobic, typing 'leave' will make you use the
nearest obvious exit to the outside.

#
ENTER
  If you type 'enter' while you are outdoors, you will enter any
nearby shelter.  You can also follow 'enter' with an argument; for
example, 'enter window'.

#
TIME
  Gives you the current 'gametime'. Your initial reaction to the
output of this command may be one of surprise, but you will get used
to it. you will have to, at any rate, since certain things in the game
depend on this particular notion of time; the opening hours of the
shops, for example.

#
BUG TYPO IDEA
For making useful suggestions to the maintainers of the game. Examples:

bug the entire game crashes when I type 'put bag in bag'
idea make a restaurant in Midgaard
typo 'sence' should be spelled 'sense'
#
QUIT
  When you get tired of playing, you can leave the game by typing
'quit'. Note that whatever stuff you might be carrying with you is
simply left on the ground. If you wish to have your equipment put away
until you are able to come back, you will have to find an inn.

See also: INN
#
INN INNS
  Inns are places where the weary traveler may rest while the
innkeeper looks after his equipment and treasure. Specifically, you
may use inns to store your gathered equipment while you are not
playing the game (we all have to sleep sometimes, there is no shame in
that).

See also: OFFER, RENT
#
OFFER RENT
  For use in the receptions of inns. The command 'offer' will make the
innkeeper tell you the cost of storing your carried items for one day.
'rent' will store the items and make you leave the game. The next time
you enter, you will start out in the reception where you left. The inn
will store your items as long as you have the gold to pay the rent.

See also: INN
#
GET TAKE
  If you find something interesting on the ground, you may use 'get'
to pick it up. Example: "get greatsword". If you are in a hurry, or if
you just feel very greedy, you may type "get all". You can also use
'get' to extract objects from containers. Example: "get dagger from
bag".  Other examples:
  get all.bread from bag
  get 9*bread from bag
  get all from corpse

Fixed! There is no longer any ambiguity between containers in your
inventory and on the ground.  The ones in your inventory are 1..n and
the ones on the ground are (n+1)..(n+m).

See also: DROP PUT
#
PUT
For putting stuff in containers. Example: "Put the dagger in the bag".
  Put all.bread in bag
  Put 9*bread in bag.

See also: GET
#
EXAMINE
May give you some valuable information about an item, or a monster.

See also: LOOK
#
WRITE

  (What is this, a wish list?  I don't think this really works, bud
	-Hammor)
  In order to write a note, you need a piece of blank paper (or
similar), and a pen of some sort. You can then type something like
"write on the paper with the pen", whereupon you will be asked to type
in your note at the keyboard.

#
NEWS
  This command will show you the current edition of "the DikuMUD
Herald", a publication dedicated to news and useful information about
this world. It is a VERY good idea to check it out once in a while.
NOT checking it out will probably get you dead.

#
SLEEPING WAKE REST SIT STAND
  For changing your position. If you feel weary, It is probably a good
idea to sit and rest for awhile; or maybe even take a nap.

#
POUR
If you want to pour some liquid from one container to another.
#
GRAB
For getting a good grip on something; a torch, for example.

See also: WEAR, WIELD, REMOVE
#
FOLLOW
  If you happen to be going in the same direction as someone else, why
not simply follow that person? For example: "Follow joe". If you are
following someone and you wish to stop doing that, then all you have
to do is follow yourself: "follow <your name>".

#
FLEE
  If you are in a fight and things are beginning to get a little
uncomfortable (maybe you are about to die), just type 'flee', and
presto! you are out of harm's way - that is, IF you are still standing
and, IF there is a suitable exit nearby, and IF that exit does not
simply take you out of the frying pan and into the fire... but then,
who wants to live forever?

#
IMPLEMENTOR
  The most powerful beings in existence.  Their function is mostly
administrative.  Don't whine too much in their presence.

#
GUILD
  The Guildhouse is the place where mortals may go to escape the
troubles and perils of a cruel world. Each guild is heavily guarded
(HA!), so that only members may enter the building. Guilds are also
the places where people come to learn and practice the skills of their
trade.

See also: PRACTICE
#
INFO
Gives you some useful hints and information about the game.
#
WHERE
Tells you the location of a monster, a player or an object. Examples:

where torch
where dragon
where 4.ring       (gives you the container traceback so you can find
                    out WHO has that One Ring)

Mortals can only "where" monsters or players, and only from their own
zone.

Immortals may type 'where' without arguments to see where everybody is.
#
USERS
Tells you who is logged on to the game, and where they are playing from.
#
LEVELS
Lists the levels of your class. 
#
BRIEF
  Toggle "brief mode". When in brief mode, you do not see the
descriptions of the room you are in; only the name of the room, and
the people and objects in there. Unless you are very familiar with the
area in which you travel, however, it is not advisable to use this
command. Frequently, you will find small, but vital hints in the
descriptions of the rooms: An extra peek at your surroundings could
mean the difference between life and death!

See also: COMPACT
#
!
Repeat the last command typed at the keyboard.
#
CONSIDER
Usage : consider <monster>
  This command will compare your Level with the <monsters> level. You
will then receive a rough estimate, which is by no means exact.
(Actually, it's usually an outright lie, please help us fix this, make
bug reports :) Consider does not take hitpoints/special attacks/damage
into account.

Example:
  > consider fido
#
EXPERIENCE XP

Whenever you kill a monster or a player, you earn experience points.
When enough experience points are earned, you raise a level.  Things
you should know about experience points:

We strongly discourage killing of other players, but the choice is yours.

See Also: GROUP
#
GROUP
Usage : GROUP [player]

If you are a group member, then you will share experience points for
killing monsters equally among the group. Experience points will only
be shared among group members that are in the same location, at the
time of the killing blow. Sharing is regardless of whether the group
members have been participating in the fight.

Group with no argument show a list of people with whom you are grouped.

To make a group, a "leader" must be selected. All members of the group
must then "follow" the leader using the follow command. The leader
should NOT follow anyone at all! The leader can now toggle group
membership for each player in the group, by using "group
<player_name>". The leader should remember to include himself in the
group.

Example:

Quifael and Redferne wishes to group with Dragon.

Quifael : "follow dragon"
Redferne: "follow dragon"
(Dragon should be following no one but himself)
Dragon  : "group dragon"
Dragon  : "group redferne"
Dragon  : "group quifael"

Later when Dragon get upset at Quifael (because he is sleeping all the
time) he types : "Group Quifael" to kick Quifael out of the group.

See Also: XP EXPERIENCE
#
QUAFF POTION POTIONS

Use : Quaff <Potion>

Quaff is used to "drink" a (magical) potion.
#
RECITE SCROLL SCROLLS

Use : Recite <Scroll> [Target]

Is used to "read" a magical scroll. Target can be an object, character or
nothing (which may be yourself).
#
USE WAND STAFF STAFFS WANDS

Use : Use <Staff>
      Use <Wand> <Target>

Using staves will automatically target everybody (or everything) in a
room, in some cases, or everyone not in your group in others.
Therefore staves are naturally very powerful, and yet may be very
dangerous to use around other players.

Using wands require that you point it at a target, which can be either
a character or an object.

Both staves and wands must be HELD in the hand prior to use! (Use the
grab or hold commands). You must still supply the name of the staff or
wand to avoid confusion.

#
ARMOR

Usage       : cast 'armor' [self]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 24 Hours

The Armor spell will improve your AC(Armor Class) by 2.

See Also: AC
#
TELEPORT

Usage       : cast 'teleport' [self]
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instant

Teleport (with error) will instantly transfer you to another location
in the world. This location is random, and thus there will always be a
risk of landing in a fatal location.  It can also be used as a combat
spell

See Also: -
#
BLESS
Usage       : cast 'bless' <victim or object>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 6 Hours, permanent for objects.

Bless on a victim will improve the victims saving throw versus spells
by 1, and furthermore improve the hitroll by 1.

Bless on an item currently has no defined action. It is only possible
to bless non-evil items, and the object blessed may weight no more
than five pounds per level of caster. Eventually, there may be
monsters that take extra damage from blessed weapons, so it may be
useful.

See Also: -
#
BLINDNESS
Usage       : cast 'blindness' <victim>
Accumulative: No.
Duration    : 2 + level hours.

Blindness will blind a victim failing its saving throw.  A blinded
person will have -4 penalty to both hitroll and AC.

See Also: AC
#
CLONE
Usage       : cast 'clone' <victim or object>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

Due to the ever changing data-structures of DikuMUD, clone is not yet
ready.

Clone cast on a victim or object, will make a 'nearly' perfect copy.
Clone has its limitations.

See Also: -
#
"CONTROL WEATHER"
Usage       : cast 'control weather' ('better' | 'worse')
Accumulative: Yes
Duration    : -

This spell will change the "course" of the current weather.
Example:

 > cast 'control wea' worse

See Also: -
#
"CREATE FOOD"
Usage       : cast 'create food'
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

This spell instantly creates an edible magic mushroom. The mushroom
will filling for the next (5+level) hours, up to a maximum of 24
hours.

See Also: -
#
"CREATE WATER"
Usage       : cast 'create water' <drink container>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Instantaneous

Expect icky results if cast upon a drink container which contains
another liquid than water. Empty or water containers will be filled
depending on the level of the caster.

Double amount of water will be created if it is raining (or snowing).

See Also: -
#
"CURE BLIND"
Usage       : cast 'cure blind' <victim>

This spell will cure a person blinded by the "blindness" spell, it
can not remove blindness caused by for example cursed items.

See Also: -
#
"CURE CRITIC"
Usage       : cast 'cure critic' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

This spell cures 3d8+3 hitpoints of damage.

See Also: -
#
"CURE LIGHT"
Usage       : cast 'cure light' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

This spell cures 1d8 hitpoints of damage.

See Also: -
#
"CAUSE CRITIC"
Usage       : cast 'cause critic' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

This spell causes 3d8+3 hitpoints of damage.

See Also: -
#
"CAUSE LIGHT"
Usage       : cast 'cause light' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

This spell causes 1d8 hitpoints of damage.

See Also: -
#
CURSE
Usage       : cast 'curse' (victim | object)
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 7 Days, permanent on objects.

Curse cast on a person that fails the saving throw, will reduce the
hitroll by one, and reduce the saving throw versus paralysation by
one. 

See Also: -
#
"DETECT EVIL"
Usage       : cast 'detect evil' [self]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per level

Detect evil will enable you to see the red aura surrounding evil
persons and items.

See Also: -
#
"DETECT INVISIBILITY"
Usage       : cast 'detect invisibility' [self]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per level

This spell enables you to see invisible items and players.

See Also: -
#
"DETECT MAGIC"
Usage       : cast 'detect magic' [self]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per level

This spell will let you see the magical aura surrounding magical
objects.

See Also: -
#
"DETECT POISON"
Usage       : cast 'detect poison' (victim | food | drink)
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Instantaneous

Cast on food or drinks (drink containers) you will be able to
sense if it is poisoned.

Cast on a person you will be able to see if that person is
poisoned.

See Also: -
#
"ENCHANT WEAPON"
Usage       : cast 'enchant weapon' <weapon>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Permanent

This spell will enchant non-magical (non-modifying) weapons only.  By
non-modifying weapons we refer to weapons that might alter any ability
such as for example damage. The only way to know if a weapon is
suitable for enchantment is to fully identify it.

The enchantment will modify the weapon as:

Level    Hit Roll    Damage

 0..17     +1         +1
18..19     +2         +1
20+        +2         +2

See Also: -
#
HEAL
Usage       : cast 'heal' <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Instantaneous

Heal will heal all the hitpoints from a person, except 1d4 points.
Maximum 100 points can be healed. A victim who is blinded will also be
cured by the heal spell.

See Also: "Cure Blindness"
#
INVISIBILITY
Usage       : cast 'invisibility' <victim | object>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 24 hours, permanent on objects.

Self Explanatory.
Attacking while invisible will immediately break the spell.

See Also: "detect invisibility"
#
"LOCATE OBJECT"
Usage       : cast 'locate object' <object>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

If possible you will know exactly where an object is, or the name of
the person using it. If more than one object by the same name exists,
you will get a listing of several objects.  The maximum number of
objects you can simultaneously locate is your level divided by 2.

See Also: -
#
POISON
Usage       : cast 'poison' <victim | food | drink>
Accumulative: Yes on persons.
Duration    : 2*level hours, or permanent on food and drinks.

Casting poison on food or drink (containers) will poison it.  Eating
poisoned food/drinks will poison the person eating or drinking.

A person who is poisoned will suffer 15 points of damage every
hour, and gain less points than usual.

Sometimes a monster's poison is FATAL, so beware.

See Also: "detect poison" or "cure poison"
#
"PROTECTION FROM EVIL"
Usage       : cast 'protection from evil' [self]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 24 hours

The meaning of this spell is not yet fully defined.

See Also: -
#
"REMOVE CURSE"
Usage       : cast 'remove curse' <person | object>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Instantaneous

Will remove a curse on carried objects or any persons in the room.

See Also: -
#
"REMOVE POISON"
Usage       : cast 'remove poison' <victim | food | drink> 
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Instantaneous

Will remove poison.

See Also: Poison
#
"REMOVE PARALYSIS"
Usage       : cast 'remove paralysis' <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : Instantaneous

Will remove paralysis.

See Also: Paralysis
#
SANCTUARY
Usage       : cast 'sanctuary' [self]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 3 hours

When protected by this spell, you take 1/2 damage from all attacks

See Also: Fireshield
#
FLAMESTRIKE
Usage	:	cast 'flamestrike' target

Damage	:       6 - 48 points (6d8) flame damage, 1/2 if save

#
SLEEP
Usage       : cast 'sleep' <person>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 4 hours + one hour per level

If failing saving throw versus spell, the person will fall asleep.  A
person who is affected by sleep can only be awakened if attacked.

See Also: -
#
STRENGTH
Usage       : cast 'strength' <victim>
Accumulative: Yes (strength)
Duration    : Level hours

A person will gain 1 strength point per spell (2 points if level of
caster is greater than 18). Maximum strength is 18/100.

See Also: -
#
VENTRILOQUATE
Usage       : cast 'ventriloquate' <victim | object> <text>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

For all people in the same room as the caster that fail a saving
throw, the spell will make the object or victim appear to say the text
written. People saving will only notice that someone tired to make it
sound that way, not who.

Example:

> cast 'vent' unclesam I've got 921,923 coins, don't even consider killing me.

See Also: -
#
"WORD OF RECALL"
Usage       : cast 'word of recall' 
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

The caster will be transferred back to his sanctuary (presently the
Temple of Midgaard).

See Also: -
#
SUMMON
Usage       : cast 'summon' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous

Will summon a person of the name spoken. It is not possible to summon
someone of three or more levels above yourself.  If you attempt to
summon a monster,it will get a saving throw.

See Also: -
#
"CHARM PERSON"
Usage       : cast 'charm person' <victim>
Accumulative: No
Duration    : (432/Intelligence points of person) hours

Is is not possible to charm anyone that is already charmed, if you are
charmed yourself, or if the person is higher level than yourself. The
person will get a saving throw versus "paralysation".

A charmed person will follow you, and not be able to attack you, you
can order charmed person using the order command.

See Also: FOLLOW ORDER
#
"SENSE LIFE"
Usage       : cast 'sense life' [self]
Accumulative: No
Duration    : 5 hours per level

This spell will enable you to sense hidden life forms in a room.
Invisible persons are also considered hidden.

See Also: HIDE
#
"MAGIC MISSILE"
Usage       : cast 'magic missile' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 1 magic user.
Save        : None

1d4+1/ 2 levels.  The spell "shield" will completely negate its
effect.

See Also: 
#
"CHILL TOUCH"
Usage       : cast 'chill touch' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 3 magic user.
Save        : Versus spell for half damage.

This spell is more powerful than the magic missile spell.  A victim
failing its saving throw will get its strength reduced by one.

See Also: MAGIC MISSILE
#
"BURNING HANDS"
Usage       : cast 'burning hands' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 5 magic user.
Save        : Versus spell for half damage.

1d4+1/level.
	Area of Effect (All those not in caster's group)

See Also: CHILL TOUCH
#
"SHOCKING GRASP"
Usage       : cast 'shocking grasp' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 1 magic user.
Save        : Neg

2-9 + 1/level.  A save indicates that the touch required to hit failed.

See Also: BURNING HANDS
#
"LIGHTNING BOLT"
Usage       : cast 'lightning bolt' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 5 magic user.
Save        : Versus spell for half damage.

1d6/level.  1 target.

See Also: SHOCKING GRASP
#
"COLOUR SPRAY"
Usage       : cast 'color spray' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 11 magic user.
Save        : Versus spell for half damage.

4 points of damage per level.  1 target.

See Also: LIGHTNING BOLT
#
"ENERGY DRAIN"
Usage       : cast 'energy drain' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 17 magic user.
Save        : Versus spell for half damage.

Drains one level from a PC, or does 100 hp of damage to an NPC.  Lost
levels loose max hit points, and practices.  Beware of monsters with
level draining ability.  Be aware that this spell is evil.

See Also: -
#
FIREBALL
Usage       : cast 'fireball' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 15 magic user.
Save        : Versus spell for half damage.

1d6/level   area of effect.

See Also: COLOR SPRAY
#
EARTHQUAKE
Usage       : cast 'earthquake'
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 7 cleric.
Save        : -

This spell will damage everybody except the caster's group by
2d8+level_of_caster hitpoints.

See Also: -
#
"DISPEL EVIL"
Usage       : cast 'dispel evil' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Save        : Special

This spell will banish evil summoned creatures.

See Also: -
#
"DISPEL GOOD"
Usage       : cast 'dispel good' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Save        : Special

This spell will banish good summoned creatures.

See Also: -
#
"CALL LIGHTNING"
Usage       : cast 'call lightning' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 12 cleric.
Save        : Versus spell for half damage.

This spell will use the "force of nature" to make a lightning strike
the victim. It is therefore only possible to call lightning outside,
and it has to be raining (or worse).

The lightning will inflict (level)d8 points of damage, up to a maximum
of 15d8 damage points.

See Also: WEATHER and CONTROL WEATHER
#
HARM
Usage       : cast 'harm' <victim>
Accumulative: -
Duration    : Instantaneous
Level       : Level 15 cleric.
Save        : Versus spell for half damage.

This spell removes all but 1d4 hitpoints from the victim. The maximum
number of damage points are 100. It is not possible to kill using this
spell (but almost).

See Also: -
#
HELP

Following help is available:

HELP help       - This text.
HELP            - List the available commands.

Help searches for a partial match of the entered word, including any
spaces that may follow the word.

Example:
 > 'help magic mis'
    will find the help text for the magic missile spell.

 > 'help mag '
   will not match anything.

 > 'help mag'
   will match 'magic user' or 'magic missile' depending on first
   occurrence in the help file.
#
"PLAYER KILLING"

   Killing of newbies (characters up to 5th level, and the first belonging to 
that character) is ABSOLUTELY forbidden.  

   Killing of experienced players, while not specifically forbidden, is 
frowned upon, and if a player becomes a problem, he or she can be penalized, 
barred from the game, or deleted.  Also, since the decisions of 59rd levellers
is final, the actions taken by gods after a player killing can be somewhat 
unpredictable.  

#
ADVANCE

To advance a player to a level higher than his present. Default is to
advance him one level. A level 0 player (Man/Woman) is always only
advanced by one level.

#
WIZHELP
List the privileged commands available to you. Can only be used by immortals.
#
NOSHOUT
  Prevents you from (or allows you to) hearing shouts, if used with no
arguments.  Can be used with the name of a player, to prevent him/her
from hearing shouts, as well as from shouting. Can only be used by
certain more powerful beings.

#
RESTORE
  If used on a mortal, this command will reset that players mana and
hit points.  If used on an Immortal various values will be reset to
their proper values.

#
LINK

A lot of players have problems with their links to the game. This
could be very dangerous to your health in the middle of a combat. But
we have worked out a solution. There are two cases:

  I.If your link is broken, you will automatically attempt to flee
    each time someone attempts to hit you. If you manage to flee, then
    you will be saved by divine forces, and put in a safe place until
    you reconnect to the game.

 II.If your link jams (freezes) you got a problem. The only solution
    we can give, is that you break your link as quickly as possible. By
    breaking the link you can hope that the above procedure is initiated.

#
COMPACT
  If you have a small display you might want to use this command. It
turns off (or on) the extra newline after output to your screen.

See also: BRIEF
#
DEAFEN
  Type deafen and all shouts are no longer heard.  Type deafen once again
and shouts can once again be heard.
#
PROMPT
  Your prompt will display Hitpoints, Mana and Movement (H M V) if you
are a magic user or cleric, and just Hitpoints and Movement if you are
a fighter or thief.  If you wish this feature turned off, complain to
the management.

#
WIMP "WIMP MODE"
   If you are in wimp mode, you will flee after you have lost 80% of
your hit points automatically.  type WIMP again to turn it off.

#
INFRA INFRAVISION
   Infravision is a spell that allows you to see heat sources in
otherwise dark conditions.  It does not allow you to read scrolls, or
find items.  In addition, usage of spells which create large amounts
of heat may cause temporary blindness in Infravision-affected players
and monsters.

#
EDIT
   Edit allows you to edit rooms.  The room you are currently in is
the one that is edited.  You can edit any room, but the changes will
not be permanent.  However, using the rsave, and rload commands, you
can save your changes into a file, and reload them later into the
game, (if it crashes, for example).

NOTE: If you are confused by this, and try it anyway, you may crash
    the game.  Please be very sure that you know what you are doing.
    Also, try to avoid making too many changes to the existent areas
    for the moment.

Also note: You need to have an area, before you start editing it. this
does not create rooms, only edits them.  Contact Jamie if you want an
area.  Also ask him any questions that you have about room editing.


The fields work as follows:

 edit <field> <attributes>

   field is one of the following:

	name     :  changes the name of the room.
	desc     :  changes the room description.
	exit     :  adds, deletes or modifies a room's exits
	fs       :  changes the Flags, and Sector type.
	exdsc    :  adds, changes or deletes an exit description
	extra    :  adds an extra description to a room.
	riv      :  adds special parameters for rivers.
	tele     :  makes the room a teleport room.
        tunn     :  makes the room a tunnel room.

   attributes:

	name  <name of room>
	desc  <enter>  (it will prompt you for text)
	exit  <dir> <door flags> <key> <to_room>
	fs    <flags> <sector_type>
	exdsc <dir> <enter>  (prompts you for text)
	extra <keywords> <enter>  (prompts you for text)
	riv   <speed> <dir>
        tele  <time> <to_room> <look-flag>
        tunn  <mob_lim>

<dir>  0 = n, 1 = e, 2 = s, 3 = w, 4 = u, 5= d.
<door flags> 0 = no door. (just exit). 1 = door, 2 = pickproof door.
<key> item # that opens door, (if no door, use -1)
<to_room>  The room # that the exit goes to.
<flags>   type help roomflags.
<sector_type>  Type help sector_type
<time> The time interval between teleports.  Must be a multiple of 10
       10 is very fast.  60 is much slower.  
<look-flag> whether to do a look when the characters are teleported.
            if this number is 0, they won't konw they've been teleported
            unless they look on their own.  if the number is not 0, each 
            time they are teleported, they are forced to look.

<keywords> which things will trigger info.. for example if the keyword is
	case
	then if you type look at case, the text will be displayed.

<speed>  must be a multiple of 15. if you do not want the river to flow, 
	speed should be 0.  

<mob_lim>  A number, indicating the number of mobiles that can be in the
           room at one time.  The TUNNEL roomflag must be set, although
           use of edit tunn X  automatically sets the flag.           

#
ROOMFLAGS
   DARK           1
   DEATH          2
   NO_MOB         4
   INDOORS        8
   PEACEFUL      16  /* No fighting */
   NOSTEAL       32  /* No Thieving */ Does not work (yet)
   NO_SUM        64  /* No summoning of creatures in these rooms */
   NO_MAGIC     128  Does not work yet
   TUNNEL       256 /* only X people in room (X set by edit tunn) */
   PRIVATE      512 no teleport to this room, no goto when more than 2 people
#
BREATH
  The breath command allows you to use a breath weapon on another
monster.  The only way to get a breath weapon is to either be a
monster with such an ability (dragons usually have one) or quaff a
potion of fire/ice/acid/gas/lightning breath.

  If you are already fighting, breath without any arguments will
breath on the monster you are fighting.  If you are NOT fighting you
must supply the name of a target to breath on.

  Breath weapons are terrifying and most opponents will flee before
you get a chance to breath on them.  However, you may blast bystanders
with the same breath.

  This means breath weapons are not terribly accurate.  You will
always hit the monster you target and will usually hit his group,
followers and his leader.  You will also probably blast anyone
currently hitting on you.  You also have a small chance (less than
half) of hitting each bystander (someone not covered above).  They
will not appreciate this and will probably decide to beat the snot out
of you.

  When quaffed breath potions modify you so that you can breath ONE
time.  If you do not breath in 2-3 rounds the potion will explode
inside you causing half of its normal damage.  These potions also
reduce your CON for the duration of the spell.  You therefore cannot
quaff more breath weapon levels than you have constitution.  You also
cannot quaff more breath weapon levels than you have levels.

  The damage of a breath weapon is a function of its level, your
level, and your hitpoints.  If your level is equal to the breath
weapon's level it will do your hitpoints worth of damage to the
target.  If your level is double the level of the breath weapon it
will only do half your hitpoints of damage.  Monsters natural breath
weapons exceed the CON restriction and even a 50th level monster can
do full damage.  Since most huge monsters have huge hitpoints, this can
be a LOT of damage.  do not ever fight a titanium dragon.

See also: KILL
#
ASSIST

  If you type "assist <player>" you will begin fighting the same
person the <player> is.

  ASSIST is similar to RESCUE except the <player> continues fighting.
It is better than KILL in many cases because you do not have to choose
between 1.golem and 2.golem (or 1.lamia that just entered the room).
Even though monsters of the same type assist each other in combat,
ASSIST is better because you will eliminate one aggressor much faster.

See also: RESCUE, KILL
#
WHOZONE

  This command lists all the players in the current zone and also
tells you their location.  If you are a god (not bloody likely) it
will also tell you their room number.

H:107 R:3001> whozone
Players
-------
Nate the Human Illusionist              - Bywater Road [1122]
Gorg the Human Veteran                  - Bywater Road [1122]
Hammor wants to be an ambassador to Epic- The Temple Of Midgaard [3001]

NOTE: Hammor needs to fix it so that the bloody title is not printed as
part of the name.
#
ECHO

  This command sends the text of its argument to everyone in the same
room as the wizard.  The wizard gets no feedback and does not see the
message.
#
FORCE
  undocumented, ask another wizard
#
TRANSFER

  This wizard command moves a character into the same room with the
wizard.  You can also transfer monsters with this command, but be
careful when using this command near aggressive monsters.  Getting a
player killed is NOT good form.

  trans Jamie              (you better have a good reason)
  trans 4.lamia            (this monster is aggressive, watch it)
  at 2 trans PlayerKiller  (send this person to Hell.  On Silly mud
                            there is no way to walk out of Hell)
#
VALUE

  In a shop, this command will tell you what the shopkeeper is willing
to pay for the item.
#
LIST

  In a shop this command will list what the shopkeeper has for sale,
with prices.
#
GOTO

  This wizard command allows you to move about without walking.  You
can either supply a room Vnumber, a player name, a monster name
(lamia, 34.lamia), or an object name (corpse, 5.corpse).  You will
disappear and reappear in the target room.

  If a room is flagged PRIVATE and there is more than one person in
it, additional people will not be able to GOTO there.  Get an
inhabitant to TRANSFER you in.

See also: TRANSFER
#
RESTAURANTS FOOD
  The baker has a small selection of bread.  His shop is west of
Market Square.
  There is a pub in the south section of the city off of Emerald
Avenue where you can buy beer (if you're over 21) and food.

#
GAIN
  Whenever you have accumulated the experience points needed to get your
next level, you must go to your guildmaster and GAIN.  This will advance
you to your next level, give you your hit points, practices, and modify your
abilities (such as THAC0 or backstab multiplier).  Until you GAIN, you may
not gain any more experience points than those needed to place you one away
from the next highest level.

#~
