From JEF@lns61.tn.cornell.edu Fri Jan  1 05:01 CST 1993
Received: from LNS61.TN.CORNELL.EDU by hecate.cdc.com (5.61/1.34) id AA11112; Fri, 1 Jan 93 05:00:56 -0600
Received: from lns61.tn.cornell.edu by lns61.tn.cornell.edu (PMDF #12655) id
 <01GSZS1BMFNK9X4CL6@lns61.tn.cornell.edu>; Fri, 1 Jan 1993 05:43 EST
Date: Fri, 1 Jan 1993 05:43 EST
From: Is WD-40 what we use to clean the computer screens?
 <JEF@lns61.tn.cornell.edu>
To: diku@hecate.cdc.com
Message-Id: <01GSZS1BMFNK9X4CL6@lns61.tn.cornell.edu>
X-Vms-To: IN%"diku@hecate.cdc.com"
Status: R

Comment: forwarded by CRNLNS/FMailV3.1
Comment: REPLY may not work.
Comment: Network-Source:  _LNS524::JEF (HEPnet/SPAN)
Comment: Originally-From: JEF          "Is WD-40 what we use to clean the computer screens?"
Comment: Originally-To:   IN%"diku@hecate.cdc.com"

An possible alteration to the existing Hall of rules (vnum 2640+) incorporating
some of the new laws that have popped up in past months.

1-1-92
-batopr


Hall of Rules

Welcome to the hall of rules.  The rooms above this one contain a brief list
of the laws of the land for Motel VI.  You are expected to know the rules and
to abide by them.  Failure to do so is punishable by any of the immortals in
whatever manner they see fit.  If you are found in violation of any of the
laws, and are punished, you may appeal the ruling to a god of higher level
then the one punishing you with the decision of Brutius being final.

In all cases, it is the spirit and not the letter of the law that should be
obeyed.  The spirit of the law is designed to maximize enjoyment for all
players and not to favor anyone over someone else.

Lastly, this hall of rules is not comprehensive.  Laws are created, eliminated
and changed from time to time.  Typing NEWS should keep you apprised of such
alterations.  

---------------

Hall of Rules

Player Killing and Stealing..

..is strictly forbidden EXCEPT in one of the designated anarchy zones.  It 
should be impossible to PK/PS anywhere outside of the anarchy zones and you 
cannot be summoned into one of the anarchy zones.  Within the anarchy zones,
PK/PS rules are non-existant.  No god will reimburse you for a PK/PS within
such a zone; YOU assume responsiblity for your own life and belongings when
you enter the anarchy zone.  If a PC constantly PK/PS's players of lower levels
he will be punished.  This is the only unacceptible form of PK/PS in such
 a zone.
	For an up to date list of the anarchy zones, ask a god or a fellow
player.

-----

Corpse Looting and kill stealing..

..is considered in bad taste but is NOT illegal.  However, if SCUM loots the
corpse that VICTIM just killed or jumps in at the last minute and tries to
steal the kill, VICTIM can seek revenge.  So long as such revenge is 
consistant with the other laws here, no divine intervention will occur.
  Please note that if a corpse dries up and blows away, any stuff that was in
it is considered fair game.  This also applies to your own corpse should you
get killed.  If you fail to recover what was in your corpse before it dries up,
anyone is permitted to get the stuff that was lying there free for the taking
if they desire.  (exception: anything personalized as yours by a god is
excluded.)  Any item found just lying there is a gift to the first to find it.

------

Use of external computer programs (clients and scripts)...

...are permissible with the following restrictions.  No single player may ever
have more then three (3) of his characters on simultaneously.  This number
drops to two (2) if the total number of players exceeds 30.
    "Robots" that add nothing to the game are considered illegal.  This means
that if you write a script that has a robot heal people if asked you are OK
(and probably beloved by your fellow PC's).  BUT, if the script merely has
your robot sit in a room doing the same thing over and over again for personal
gain (e.g.  creating a scroll of recall, sleeping for mana, then creating more
recalls as mana regenerates; or, writing a script to have you fight a given
mob every time it regenerates) then you are considered in violation.



