                            Ye Great Atlas of Midgaard
                                 and its environs

                              by Batopr and Stargazer

                        BOOK 3:  For advanced players only...

New Thalos:
Far beyond the eastern mountains, north of the great desert, lies a busy
city.  Its shops rival that of midgaard, selling exotic wares from afar.
This city holds adventure for players of all levels.

The Ambush:
'nuff said.  It might happen to you anywhere, anytime.  Be careful out there.
Virtually certain death for the solo or inexperienced explorer.

The High Tower of Sorcery:
In the remote corners of the land, beyond the gates of New Thalos and the
prying eyes of mankind, a group of wizards has come together to practice
the thaumatergical arts.   Masters and students alike can be found within their
magical tower.  One wonders if the shadow demons outside are to keep you from
getting in, or keep what's inside from getting out.  Players of all levels will
find this tower holds something to try their powers.

Southern Midgaard:
This upscale end of town is also under the protection of the Midgaard's
cityguards so be on your best behavior.  The mayor's office, the cityguard
headquarters and the homes of some of the more prestigious players can
be visited here.  You may also relax along the prominade overlooking the river
or in the cafe located just off the park.  Moderately difficult but you can
pick your fights accordingly.

The Great Eastern Desert:
This burning wasteland lies on the very edge of the civilized world far to
the east of Midgaard beyond the mountains.  The immense heat makes any
creature you find here quite oarnery, but the treasures to be had in this
forsaken place are well worth it.  You will want to be seasoned to deal with
the creatures of the desert.

Drow City:
The land of the dark elves is rarely seen by surface dwellers.  A large cavern
lying far underground somewhere far to the east of town near the fabled River
of Lost Souls, holds the homes and practice yards of the drow.  Needless to
say, they will not be pleased to see you and there method of getting you to
leave may not thrill you...
Only a heavily equipped adventurer is likely to stumble upon this place - this
is fortunate as only such a player stands a chance.

Old Thalos:
The ruins of a once great city lie as a silent reminder of the splendor that
existed here before the Eastern Desert swept away the source of the wealth.
Today, nothing but the empty husks of what once was still exist with the
creatures of the desert inhabiting them.  Long forgotten artifacts may be found
amidst the rubble.  The creatures that now claim this city will probably
not take kindly to the return of it's human builders - be moderately tough
and plan accordingly.

The Pyramid of Akinra:
From almost anywhere in the desert this wonderous ediface can be seen, but it's
crafty designers took great pains to keep it's entrance hidden and hard to get
to.  Inside is the buried treasure of it's undead inhabitant...as well as what
guards it.
If you survive to make it into the pyramid, you most likely will be able to
beat what you come across.  But, are you mentally up to the puzzles that
you will need to solve to get to the final prize?

The Palace of Midgaard:
An the north-east corner of midgaard lies the beautiful palace of its rulers.
It is well defended; only the most fierce and brave dare to challenge its
guardians.

The Maze of Minotaur:
Far below the depths of moria lies an even greater challenge.  Only advanced
players should dare enter this great labyrinth, for its riches are defended by
hideous guardians.

Deadly Creatures Exhibit:
In the western areas of the zoo the most fierce and deadly creatures are
locked away, to be savored only be the intermediate or advanced adventurer.
Beginners stay out!
