                            Ye Great Atlas of Midgaard
                                 and its environs

                              by Batopr and Stargazer

                       BOOK 1:  Adventure for the beginner


The Temple of Midgaard:
To the west of the New Adventurers' Lounge is where the temple's monastic
order and their stange and somewhat exotic pets may usually be found. This is
a good place for newbies and beginners to learn the ropes.

The Temple Labyrinth:
Below the temple of midgaard lies a wonderful maze, especially designed for
newbies who have the hang of the game or who travel in packs.  Be sure to
map carefully, and don't listen to the labyrinth liar!
("Then again I could be wrong!")

The Shire:
Only a short distant to the west and north of town is the home of the
little folk.  The furry-footed ones like to burrow into the earth so
be sure to explore their warren.  Challenges await for players of all
levels with emphasis on the newbies.

The Zoo:
Here the fuzzy and exotic creatures of midgaard bathe in the sun for your
enjoyment.  Please don't feed the animals (with your corpse)!  For newbies
and beginners only.

Moria:
The Mines of Moria are a deep and cavernous dungeon full of some of the most
vile monsters of Midgaard.  Beware for most of them have little better to do
then to attack you for your meager possessions.  A place that will try the
skills of any beginner player.  Be sure to read the sign before entering.

The Forest Landing Mall:
Need a gift for that someone special or merely want to pamper yourself with
something new?  The mall, located mid-way between Midgaard and Mordilinia with
a fantastic view of the Haon-Dor Forest, is the place for you.  Beginners will
find this an interesting place to pass the time.

The Elemental Planes:
Accessable only through mysterious means, this netherworld holds adventure for
beginning level players.

The Goblin Caves:
East of midgaard lies the realm of the goblins.  If you can find their lair,
and conquer it, their rumored wealth will be yours!  Newbies will especially
enjoy a visit here.

The Arena:
Looking for someplace offbeat or a monster out of the ordinary.  Truly
wonderous sights can be had for the player who can conquer the labyrinthian
passageways twisting beneath the ground a short way east of town.  Explorers
are advised to read the sign at the arena entrance.

The DanjerHaus:
A small college apartment house complete with annoying roommates, pets with
an attitude problem and a fully stocked (solely with beer) refridgerator awaits
your exploration in southern midgaard.  These party-type college students offer
little challenge for anyone.

Northern Midgaard:
Mankind's main bastion and center of population.  Most of your adventurers
will begin here and it is to here you should return to rest, recuperate,
reequip and sell the items the quest might have brought you.  A diverse array
of creatures will interact with you in a friendly way.

The Volcano:
Somewhere near the Ishtar river lies a mightly volcano full of adventure for
begining players.

The Chessboard:
The Ivory Tower, guarded by sisyphus, is just inside the west gate of Midgaard.
An odd assortment of creatures and game pieces inhabits it's playing field.
Low levels will find this an ideal place as only they can pass Sisyphus's
scrutiny and be permitted inside unchallenged.

Quickland:
Information on the present location of the quickling raiders is sparse.  They
are reputed to be somewhere in the forest near the river but this is only
rumor.  Their normal tactic is to strike fast (hence the name) in sufficient
numbers to overwhelm and make off with the booty.  They are quite good at what
they do and, hence, have treasure well worth the risk of life of going after.

Hill Giant Smial:
North of Moria lies the fortress of the hill giants.  A great place for
beginning (but past newbie stage) players.
