                            Ye Great Atlas of Midgaard
                                 and its environs

                              by Batopr and Stargazer

                     BOOK 4:  For advanced players only... (cont.)

Asgard:
The home of the gods.  They tend to take exception to mere mortals being here
So you had better be pretty buff or immortal yourself before wandering in
here.

The Graveyard of Midgaard:
A locked grate prevents the hideous beast within the graveyard from escaping
into Southern Midgaard.  Be alert, something big, ugly and reptillian will
destroy all but the most prepared and powerful of groups.

Graecia:
Above the crossroads lies another world, filled with adventure.  Be sure to
read the sign upon entering.
   Labor's of Hercules - Relive the famous accomplishments of the mighty
     hercules.  For groups of beginning players.  This area is reported to
     be directly north of the enterence to Graecia.
   The Forest Maze - The dark forests of eastern Graceia will confuse and
     destroy the careless adventurer.  This area is best explored by groups
     of players who have a beginning to intermediate level of experience.
   Hades - This area is what it sounds like... utter hell.  Do not tread in
     here unless you travel in packs and are at least of intermediate ability.
     The enterence to this forboding land lies somewhere beyond the forest
     maze.
   The Quest of the Ancients - Here lives the likes of Medusa and the evil
     Cyclops king, far across the western ocean.  This area provides a
     challenge similar to that of Hades.
   Mount Olympus - Beyond the forest maze lies a huge mountain, home to the
     Graecian gods.  While their home holds great treasures, they do welcome
     visitors... for target practice.  For groups of advanced to buff players.

The Skexie Palace:
An ancient race, the Skexie, occupy a strange fortress far to the southwest of
midgaard.  The are usually a passive folk, but will guard their treasures
fiercly if threatened.  Intermediate to buff players will find a little
something to keep themselves occupied here.

The Gypsy Village:
Far to the northeast of midgaard lies a small village, home to Abdullah and
his gypsy clan.  Their shops offer some interesting items, and they always
welcome visitors.  For intermediate level players.

The Swamp:
North of the gypsy village lies a deadly swamp.  It holds great mysteries,
as well as great peril.  Be sure to bring a recall, as the quicksand can
hold someone for hours.  For intermediate to advanced adventurers only.

The Zombie Castle:
The undead that inhabit this evil lair are feared by the residents of New
Thalos.  The citizens dread the day these rotting corpses decide to look
southward towards their fair village.  The dark castle has had few visitors.
Fewer still have returned to tell about it's mysteries.  Adventurers who
would rid the world of this evil menace should be of advanced or better ability.

The Abyss:
Untold evil lies in this ancient relm, and with it come some of the mightiest
of rewards.  Rumor puts its location far to the north-west of midgaard.  For
advanced or buff players only.

The Monk Temple:
A dark band of evil monks lives high upon Temple Hill, overlooking midgaard.
They are extremely dangerous and don't welcome visitors.  For advanced or buff
players only.

Marvel:
Test your wits and strength against Marvel's mightiest super-heros and
super-villans.  The where-abouts of this zone are unknown but to a elite
few.  Enter at your own risk.  For the buffest of buff.
