Shark's domain:
SHARKS- Wonders of the deep!  These terrible predators of the sea may be 
viewed in Southern Midgaard's very own aquarium.  A great place to bring the
children.


The Ambush:
'nuff said.  It might happen to you anywhere, anytime.  Be careful out there.
Virtually certain death for the solo or inexperienced explorer.


Asgard:
The home of the gods.  They tend to take exception to mere mortals being here
So you had better be pretty buff or immortal yourself before wandering in
here.


The Chessboard:
The Ivory Tower, guarded by sisyphus, is just inside the west gate of Midgaard.
An odd assortment of creatures and game pieces inhabits it's playing field.
Low levels will find this an ideal place as only they can pass Sisyphus's
scrutiny and be permitted inside unchallenged.


The High Tower of Sorcery:
In the remote corners of the land, beyond the gates of New Thalos and the
prying eyes of mankind, a group of wizards has come together to practice
the thaumatergical arts.   Masters and students alike can be found within their
magical tower.  One wonders if the shadow demons outside are to keep you from
getting in, or keep what's inside from getting out.  Players of all levels will
find this tower holds something to try their powers.


Southern Midgaard:
This upscale end of town is also under the protection of the Midgaard's
cityguards so be on your best behavior.  The mayor's office, the cityguard
headquarters and the homes of some of the more prestigious players can
be visited here.  You may also relax along the prominade overlooking the river
or in the cafe located just off the park.  Moderately difficult but you can
pick your fights accordingly.


The Graveyard of Midgaard:
A locked grate prevents the hideous beast within the graveyard from escaping
into Southern Midgaard.  Be alert, something big, ugly and reptillian will
destroy all but the most prepared and powerful of groups.



The Great Eastern Desert:
This burning wasteland lies on the very edge of the civilized world far to
the east of Midgaard beyond the mountains.  The immense heat makes any
creature you find here quite oarnery, but the treasures to be had in this
forsaken place are well worth it.  You will want to be seasoned to deal with 
the creatures of the desert.


Drow City:
The land of the dark elves is rarely seen by surface dwellers.  A large cavern
lying far underground somewhere far to the east of town near the fabled River
of Lost Souls, holds the homes and practice yards of the drow.  Needless to
say, they will not be pleased to see you and there method of getting you to 
leave may not thrill you...
Only a heavily equipped adventurer is likely to stumble upon this place - this
is fortunate as only such a player stands a chance.


Old Thalos:
The ruins of a once great city lie as a silent reminder of the splendor that
existed here before the Eastern Desert swept away the source of the wealth.
Today, nothing but the empty husks of what once was still exist with the
creatures of the desert inhabiting them.  Long forgotten artifacts may be found
amidst the rubble.  The creatures that now claim this city will probably
not take kindly to the return of it's human builders - be moderately tough
and plan accordingly.


The Pyramid of Akinra:
From almost anywhere in the desert this wonderous ediface can be seen, but it's
crafty designers took great pains to keep it's entrance hidden and hard to get
to.  Inside is the buried treasure of it's undead inhabitant...as well as what
guards it.
If you survive to make it into the pyramid, you most likely will be able to 
beat what you come across.  But, are you mentally up to the puzzles that
you will need to solve to get to the final prize?


Haon-Dor Forest:
To the west of Midgaard lies the seemingly peaceful forest of Haon-Dor.  As you
travel further and further in, the lighting will fade down to nothing and
what started off as cute and adorable creatures will suddenly become vicious
and hateful monsters. 
The forest becomes increasingly difficult the further into it one travels.  Low
levels will enjoy what they find near the cabin and the Buffest of players can
certainly find something that will yield a challenge in the furthest reaches of
the woods.


Quickland:
Information on the present location of the quickling raiders is sparse.  They
are reputed to be somewhere in the forest near the river but this is only 
rumor.  Their normal tactic is to strike fast (hence the name) in sufficient
numbers to overwhelm and make off with the booty.  They are quite good at what
they do and, hence, have treasure well worth the risk of life of going after.
This area is predominantly for low level players although intermediates may 
enjoy the challenge of the raider chieftains.


Dwarven Area:
The dwarves of midgaard are reknowned for their mining skills and engineering
craftsmanship.  If they can combine the two, all the better.  Thus, they love
to mine gold and hide it away behind intricately devious locked doors.  Find 
the keys and you have taken the first step...
Explore the dwarven kingdom when you have left newbie-dom behind you.


Arctica:
Bring your long underwear if you're gonna explore the snowy lands to the north
of the shire. This winter wonderland is known for the pristine beauty of its
vista as well as the assortment of monsters that confront you.  After fighting
Jack Frost, why not stop and build a snowman to relax?
A large number of monsters are here to challenge players from newbie up to 
intermediate level.


The Sewers of Midgaard:
Below the town dump lies a twisting maze of sewer pipes that holds adventure
for beginning to intermediate level players.  It is rumored that these sewage
filled tunnels connect to a complex cavern system holding evin greater peril,
maybe even a dragon!  Bring a torch and map well.  Many have never returned.

 
The Palace of Midgaard:
An the north-east corner of midgaard lies the beautiful palace of its rulers.
It is well defended; only the most fierce and brave dare to challenge its
guardians.


The Maze of Minotaur:
Far below the depths of moria lies an even greater challenge.  Only advanced
players should dare enter this great labyrinth, for its riches are defended by
hideous guardians.  


Hill Giant Smial:
North of Moria lies the fortress of the hill giants.  A great place for
beginning (but past newbie stage) players.


Deadly Creatures Exhibit:
In the western areas of the zoo the most fierce and deadly creatures are 
locked away, to be savored only be the intermediate or advanced adventurer.
Beginners stay out! 


Castle Python:
Need we say more?  Watch out for the guys in drag.  For newbies to intermediate
level players.  (Rumor puts the castle somewhere south east of crossroads.)


New Thalos:
Far beyond the eastern mountains, north of the great desert, lies a busy
city.  Its shops rival that of midgaard, selling exotic wares from afar.
This city holds adventure for players of all levels.


Graecia:
Above the crossroads lies another world, filled with adventure.  Be sure to
read the sign upon entering.
   Labor's of Hercules - Relive the famous accomplishments of the mighty
     hercules.  For groups of beginning players.  This area is reported to
     be directly north of the enterence to Graecia.
   The Forest Maze - The dark forests of eastern Graceia will confuse and 
     destroy the careless adventurer.  This area is best explored by groups
     of players who have a beginning to intermediate level of experience.
   Hades - This area is what it sounds like... utter hell.  Do not tread in
     here unless you travel in packs and are at least of intermediate ability.
     The enterence to this forboding land lies somewhere beyond the forest
     maze.
   The Quest of the Ancients - Here lives the likes of Medusa and the evil
     Cyclops king, far across the western ocean.  This area provides a 
     challenge similar to that of Hades.
   Mount Olympus - Beyond the forest maze lies a huge mountain, home to the
     Graecian gods.  While their home holds great treasures, they do welcome
     visitors... for target practice.  For groups of advanced to buff players. 


The Skexie Palace:
An ancient race, the Skexie, occupy a strange fortress far to the southwest of
midgaard.  The are usually a passive folk, but will guard their treasures
fiercly if threatened.  Intermediate to buff players will find a little 
something to keep themselves occupied here.


The Skexie Challenge:
Quest to earn some of the best items in game.  Enterence is in southern part
of Skexie Palace.  There is a quest for you, regardless of your level.  This
is strictly a solo area only, and newbies may want to wait for awhile before
attempting any of the quests.


The Gelflings:
The gelflings are a friendly folk who live in a secret underground base 
somewhere near the skexies.  They pose no real threat to adventurers, save
newbies.

The Gypsy Village:
Far to the northeast of midgaard lies a small village, home to Abdullah and
his gypsy clan.  Their shops offer some interesting items, and they always
welcome visitors.  For intermediate level players.


The Swamp:
North of the gypsy village lies a deadly swamp.  It holds great mysteries,
as well as great peril.  Be sure to bring a recall, as the quicksand can
hold someone for hours.  For intermediate to advanced adventurers only.


The Portal:
Somewhere south of midgaard is rumored to be a great portal to parts unknown.  
Those who wish to explore it must defeat its guardians, who will pose a 
serious threat only to newbies and beginners. 


Lythcanthropia:
"Were" is  Lythcanthropia you ask?  Explorers to the region report that it
is near the river south of Midgaard.  They also suggest that this area is 
safe for beginning adventurers, but not for newbies.


Mordilnia:
Little is known about Midgaard's rival to the south-west.  What is known
suggests that it is essentially a lot like Midgaard.  Rumors report theives
on the route to it, so watch out!


Arachnos:
South-east of Midgaard lies the spider kingdom of Arachnos.  Arachnophobes 
should steer clear of this 8-legged kingdom.  So should newbies and non-grouped
beginners.


Castle Mistamere:
This ancient castle has become infested with evil.  The monsters of this
keep are not particularily deadly... they just tend to travel in packs. 
Groups of beginners should have fun cleaning this place up and restoring it
to its former glory.


Enfan village:
Far to the northwest of midgaard lies an evil village of dangerous enfans.
Travellers are advised to steer clear of their abode, lest they are at
least of intermediate experience. 


The Zombie Castle:
The undead that inhabit this evil lair are feared by the residents of New 
Thalos.  The citizens dread the day these rotting corpses decide to look 
southward towards their fair village.  The dark castle has had few visitors.
Fewer still have returned to tell about it's mysteries.  Adventurers who
would rid the world of this evil menace should be of advanced or better ability.


The Abyss:
Untold evil lies in this ancient relm, and with it come some of the mightiest
of rewards.  Rumor puts its location far to the north-west of midgaard.  For
advanced or buff players only.


The Monk Temple:
A dark band of evil monks lives high upon Temple Hill, overlooking midgaard.
They are extremely dangerous and don't welcome visitors.  For advanced or buff
players only.


Marvel:
Test your wits and strength against Marvel's mightiest super-heros and
super-villans.  The where-abouts of this zone are unknown but to a elite
few.  Enter at your own risk.  For the buffest of buff.
