                            Ye Great Atlas of Midgaard
                                 and its environs

                              by Batopr and Stargazer

                 BOOK 2:  When you feel a little more daring...


Shark's domain:
SHARKS- Wonders of the deep!  These terrible predators of the sea may be
viewed in Southern Midgaard's very own aquarium.  A great place to bring the
children.

Haon-Dor Forest:
To the west of Midgaard lies the seemingly peaceful forest of Haon-Dor.  As you
travel further and further in, the lighting will fade down to nothing and
what started off as cute and adorable creatures will suddenly become vicious
and hateful monsters.
The forest becomes increasingly difficult the further into it one travels.  Low
levels will enjoy what they find near the cabin and the Buffest of players can
certainly find something that will yield a challenge in the furthest reaches of
the woods.

Dwarven Area:
The dwarves of midgaard are reknowned for their mining skills and engineering
craftsmanship.  If they can combine the two, all the better.  Thus, they love
to mine gold and hide it away behind intricately devious locked doors.  Find
the keys and you have taken the first step...
Explore the dwarven kingdom when you have left newbie-dom behind you.

Arctica:
Bring your long underwear if you're gonna explore the snowy lands to the north
of the shire. This winter wonderland is known for the pristine beauty of its
vista as well as the assortment of monsters that confront you.  After fighting
Jack Frost, why not stop and build a snowman to relax?
A large number of monsters are here to challenge players from newbie up to
intermediate level.

The Sewers of Midgaard:
Below the town dump lies a twisting maze of sewer pipes that holds adventure
for beginning to intermediate level players.  It is rumored that these sewage
filled tunnels connect to a complex cavern system holding evin greater peril,
maybe even a dragon!  Bring a torch and map well.  Many have never returned.

Castle Python:
Need we say more?  Watch out for the guys in drag.  For newbies to intermediate
level players.  (Rumor puts the castle somewhere south east of crossroads.)

The Skexie Challenge:
Quest to earn some of the best items in game.  Enterence is in southern part
of Skexie Palace.  There is a quest for you, regardless of your level.  This
is strictly a solo area only, and newbies may want to wait for awhile before
attempting any of the quests.

The Gelflings:
The gelflings are a friendly folk who live in a secret underground base
somewhere near the skexies.  They pose no real threat to adventurers, save
newbies.

The Portal:
Somewhere south of midgaard is rumored to be a great portal to parts unknown.
Those who wish to explore it must defeat its guardians, who will pose a
serious threat only to newbies and beginners.

Lythcanthropia:
"Were" is  Lythcanthropia you ask?  Explorers to the region report that it
is near the river south of Midgaard.  They also suggest that this area is
safe for beginning adventurers, but not for newbies.

Arachnos:
South-east of Midgaard lies the spider kingdom of Arachnos.  Arachnophobes
should steer clear of this 8-legged kingdom.  So should newbies and non-grouped
beginners.

Castle Mistamere:
This ancient castle has become infested with evil.  The monsters of this
keep are not particularily deadly... they just tend to travel in packs.
Groups of beginners should have fun cleaning this place up and restoring it
to its former glory.

Enfan village:
Far to the northwest of midgaard lies an evil village of dangerous enfans.
Travellers are advised to steer clear of their abode, lest they are at
least of intermediate experience.

Mordilnia:
Little is known about Midgaard's rival to the south-west.  What is known
suggests that it is essentially a lot like Midgaard.  Rumors report theives
on the route to it, so watch out!
