                            The History of Sneezy

                          as told by Vamus the Wise,
                    Historian of the Library of Grimhaven

AGE OF CREATION:  Little is known about the creation of our world. It is said
that Brutius, highest of the gods, originally wove it from the threads of other
worlds, resulting in a patchwork of realities.  The hodgepodge so displeased
him that he sneezed, coating the world in a thick goo.  Seeing that the goo
covered the ugly landscape about him in a pleasant way, Brutius named his world
"Sneezy" and took a long nap.

While he overslept, the goo shaped and twisted, forming a race of vile, evil
creatures, known as "bugs".  These hideous, multiplying beasts shook the world
to its knees, and dumped its core where Brutius would see it.  When he
awakened, he looked about, grumbled, and went back to sleep a bit longer.

While he slept, Brutius dreamt of a curious two-legged beast.  He awoke and
created The World's first "chicken".  Scrawny and hungry, the chicken quickly
consumed every bug it could get its hands on, making it plump and content.
Then Brutius ate it.  And it was good.

But hey, who believes creation stories anyways?

THE DAWN OF RECORDED HISTORY:  Much controversy exists over exactly when the
first words were recorded by mankind to document his existence.  What is known,
is that the words were:  "Help!  I lost my equipment in rent!"  As mankind
quickly spread throughout the young world, bringing carnage and mayhem to every
corner, the gods became displeased.  Mighty warriors sprang up overnight, and
asked to sit among the gods.  Some even asked to sit on the gods, but we aren't
allowed to mention those.  It became clear to the immortals that life was much
too easy, and thus things were made too difficult.

THE FIRST AGE OF DISCONTENT:  Mankind bitched.  And Brutius stayed invisible.
Soon, only a devoted few were left, causing Brutius to become lonely.
Something had to be done to bring more people to his world.  There were so
many worlds to explore, and they were all so similar.  What could he do to
draw people to his?  Downing a case of Corona, Brutius sought wisdom.

AGE OF FREEDOM:  When Brutius awoke for the third time, he had an idea.  He
completely removed the taxes the gods had placed on the world, and waited
patiently for people to notice.  Soon, a flood of new humans burst forth onto
the world, eager to enjoy the new economic situation.  For a short time, all
was well and Brutius was happy.

AGE OF UNBALANCE:  Soon money lost its value.  Power skyrocketed.  The gods and
man were locked in a never ending cycle of competition, failing desperately to
find a balance which could please both sides.  The ranks of the gods swelled as
men reached immortality in droves.

AGE OF RESTRUCTURING:  All too aware of the futility of the old world, Brutius
formed a small band of immortals to begin anew.  Naturally, They totally blew
their schedule.  Eventually, however, they did manage to build a better world,
and wrapped it around the old Sneezy.  And they called it "Sneezy 3.0".

THE CURRENT AGE:  The new history of our world passed, bringing us into the
current era of good and evil's climactic struggle.  A bright new future opens
out before us on the face of our new landscape called Sneezy 3.1.

And somewhere, right now, Brutius is oversleeping.
