Detailed News regarding the 3.1 --> 4.1 upgrade.
This has been loosely organized by topic.

Character Generation
--------------------
1.) Non human classes prevented from becoming hybrid classes (monk, ranger,
    azruzi, deikhan).
2.) Some common sense adjustments made to racial stats to bring them into
    balance.  Max's/ min's adjusted.
3.) Non-human height and weight adjusted to prevent an overlap with humans.
4.) Organization of characters into accounts instituted for better
    administration.
5.) New screen for folks to indicate their time differential between
    themselves and <h>'s home site added.   (New Accounts only)
6.) New screen for indicating a characters upbringing (wilderness,
    urban, maritime, mountain).
7.) New screen for legal disclaimer added.
8.) Initial equipment loaded has changed somewhat.  Each race has its own
    equipment type and rations are no longer given out.
9.) Many adjustments made in hp, mana, move gain formulas for rebalancing.
10.) Automatic file deletion instituted for inactivity.  Info is in the
     online FAQ.
11.) Karma implemented.  See HELP KARMA.
12.) Some automatic configuring set for newbies  (terminal type, prompts)
13.) Mage/Cleric multiclass eliminated.
14.) Stat (str, int, wis...) fluctuation with age.

Mages
-----
All disciplines available and functional.
Some disciplines do not have full complement of offensive spells.
Some skills (brew/scribe) have not been converted to 4.1 functionality (yet).
1.) Many new spells

Clerics
-------
All disciplines available and functional.
1.) Converted from using mana to piety.  HELP PIETY.
2.) Many new spells
3.) New skill: penance

Warriors
--------
All disciplines available and functional.
1.) Forthcoming skill: evaluate
2.) Enhanced skills: doorbash, kick

Thieves
-------
All disciplines available and functional.
1.) New skills: disguise, stab, poison weapons, garrotte
2.) Enhanced skills: pick locks

Monks
-----
CLASS NEARLY FULLY IMPLEMENTED
Class is slightly under-powered but will be brought to full strength ASAP.
1.) Restrictions on monk wearable equipment loosened.  Still unable to
    wear actual armor, but items restricted to other classes are not
    automatically anti-monk any longer.

Rangers
-------
CLASS NOT FULLY IMPLEMENTED (yet)
No real enhancements over 3.1 class at present time.
Class is available for play, but not recommended.
Resolution of problems in this class is low priority at present time.
1.) Forthcoming skills: forage, encamp

Deikhans
--------
CLASS NOT FULLY IMPLEMENTED (yet)
Class not available for general play at present time
1.) Increased number of weapons of power.
2.) New skills: charge, chivalry, smite

Azruzis
-------
CLASS NOT FULLY IMPLEMENTED (yet)
Class not available for general play at present time

Faction and Alignment
---------------------
1.) References to alignments largely removed in anticipation of the
    faction system.  Base code for factions in place for future
    implementation.
2.) Faction percentage formulas adjusted to handle future faction code.
3.) Mob allegiance changed to match PC allegiance system.  Mob allegiances
    being worked out so that they may be assigned to appropriate factions.
4.) Deity power formulas instituted.  See HELP DEITIES.
5.) Piety installed for clerical invoking of prayers.  See HELP PIETY.

The World
---------
1.) Many new areas added (or being added).  Sorry, no spoilers, you'll have
    to go exploring yourself.
2.) Infrastructure improvements to the major cities and towns of The World
    to eliminate gross inequities.
3.) Some redistricting done in Grimhaven.  Many new inhabitants.  Much has
    changed.
4.) Improved handling of doors and locks.  Many different door styles
    (trapdoors, grates, drawbridges, etc) with different qualities.
5.) Room height added.  Capability to crawl also instituted with appropriate
    side effects on combat and movement.

Weather and Terrain
-------------------
1.) Weather adjusted for tropical and arctic terrains.  No more desert
    snowstorms.
2.) Adverse weather conditions are now more obvious to the observer.
3.) Increased effect of percipitation on movement, visibility and other
    obvious areas.
4.) Many new terrain-specific effects implemented.  Evaporation in the
    desert, etc.

Visibility and Sound
--------------------
1.) Advancements made in handling a character's eyesight as well as how
    well someone is concealed.  Weather, terrain, race, clothing and
    illumination all come into play.
2.) Racial adjustments made for eyesight, noise emitted and visibility.
3.) Far fewer ALWAYS_LIT rooms.

Repair
------
1.) Repair speed sped up (time required much shorter).
2.) Give all.damaged and all.ticket now work.

Food and Drink
--------------
1.) Adjustments made in how hunger and thirst is used as a person moves.
2.) Increased negative effects for drunkenness added, especially in combat.
    Passing out is also possible.
3.) Food that has been around too long will spoil and become dangerous to
    consume.  Food poisoning is a nasty thing.

Mobs
----
1.) Many new mob races added.
2.) Improved limb-handling for non-humanoid shaped races.
3.) Advanced handling of undead types.  Skeletal, zombie and ghostly types
    for all races added.
4.) Mobs now rated for their karma.
5.) Some mobs are now diurnal while others are nocturnal.
6.) All Guildmasters and Trainers are killable although buff

Objs
----
1.) Many new material types added.
2.) Added new qualities (conductivity, acidic resistance, etc) to materials.
3.) Updated old materials with more logical quality assignments.
4.) Basic information about an object now shows up when object is examined.
5.) Weapon quality now rated for all weapons (not just slash).
6.) Some spell-casting weapons have lost this ability.
7.) Much more diverse range of object magic affects.
8.) Spell-casting items (scrolls, wands...) have both a level and learnedness
    of how well/powerful their spells will be.  Item magic could fail and/or
    backfire.

Combat
------
1.) Many new possible critical success and failure possibilities.  Lots of
    limb severing, bizarre and comical fumbles and the like are in there.
2.) Improved ANSI color handling for distinguishing important events.
3.) Wider variety of combat result messages (misses, etc.).
4.) Ranged combat will now show the result of the ranged weapon to the
    attacker.
5.) Special Utility Mobs (guildmasters, trainers, etc) should stay out of
    combat and be unattackable.
6.) Certain hand-to-hand skills now check height difference before permitting
    them to occur.

Economy
-------
1.) Now based on the gold Talen for all transactions.
2.) Creature's wealth is now comprised of other commodities besides just
    talens.  These items can be bartered or sold for talens, but also have
    worth in their own right in some skills and spells.
3.) Automatic component loading routine instituted to supply mage mobs
    with components.  While mage mobs still do not require components to cast
    spells, this at least will provide a source for components to enter the
    game.
4.) Shops only deal in perfect equipment now.  Lessens the amount of shop
    list spam.
5.) Armor and weapon shops are now more profit greedy in the hopes that
    equipment will be auctioned to a greater degree.  Unlimited equipment
    is no longer available in armor and weapon stores.

Miscellaneous
-------------
1.) MUCH, MUCH, MUCH improved terminal bars for VT-100 and Ansi terminals.
    Many new features: mud clock, realtime clock, faction percent display,
    tank status display.  Definitely recommend using them if you are able to.
2.) Tasking code improved so that utility commands (history, news, world,
    etc.) are all possible.  Please note that actions that require your
    character to actually physically do something may still be prevented
    (intentionally).
3.) Improved SCORE and ATTRIBUTE commands for showing session and lifetime
    stats.  Removed the display of non-intuitive data.
4.) Improved title command.  Class, and faction no longer displayed
    automatically.  Capability to add color to your own title added.
5.) Sitting, Resting and Sleeping now tasked for regeneration
    purposes.
6.) Immunity and resistance code much expanded.
7.) Autobits feature set up.  SEE HELP AUTO
8.) Help files will now automatically update certain information as it
    changes.


