General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE COUNCIL OF DEL'AL-MEIN

With the dead still unburied, and the wounded still bleeding, the six High Ones
called a full council.  Tradition stated that a full council required every
Elf to attend.  But with the short notice, it was only those who had actually
been at the fight.  This became an important point, for only those Elves
had witnessed how the battle had been won, would represent the council and its
decrees to their own tribes when news later spread.

For their part, The High Ones were outraged at the Drow's use of forbidden
magik to achieve victory.

\|\| "WE LEFT THE WORLD TO DISCARD OUR POWERS!", they shouted, "HOW DARE YOU
      USE THEM LIKE THIS?"

     "What were we to do, High Ones, let ourselves be butchered?", retorted
      the Drow.

/|/| "If need be, yes!  To discard our principles at the least sign of troubles
      casts the entire foundation on which those principles are based upon into
      doubt.  Your actions have in a single night, virtually annulled
      everything we sought to prove in coming here.  What have you done?"

     "We did what you asked us to!  DEFEND YOU!", cried the Drow indignantly.

A long period of silence followed, each side realizing how far the other had
drifted from their own way of thinking.  Then the Drow leader spoke up himself.

     "High Ones, these powers seem to be our best weapon in this fight, I wish
      to begin retraining my forces to best utilize them and..."

|*|* "UNQUESTIONABLY, NO!" the High Council interrupted.  "Under no
      circumstances will you contemplate using these powers now or in the
      future!"

     "High Ones, it is our only hope!"

%*%* "NO!", returned the High Council adamantly.

     "High Ones, you charged us to defend you, and to defend you we need to
      use all of our skills.  You then say, we can not use some skills in that
      defense.  I cannot see how to achieve the former, without utilizing the
      latter, and so, if I must, will provide for your defense in the best way
      I see fit without your blessings", proclaimed the Drow leader.

$!$! "You Drow are unworthy of our blessings if you toss aside all that we hold
      sacred.  GO!  Take what you need from us and never again set foot within
      our circle.", The High Council leader commanded.  "All that follow you
      are unworthy to bear the Elf name, you have slipped beneath us and shall
      henceforth be called elves betokening your lower station on this World."
