General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE HOBBITS

The gnome's first experiment called for 20 new breeds, for it was not known
which would survive.  But it was not long before one bright gnome realized that
each of these new breeds could be cross bred to produce hundreds of permutations
and combine the best traits of each.  This simple modification not only
guaranteed the experiment's success, for there was now a much broader range of
genetic material to work from in later generations, but it brought about the
need for the fourth major race of civilization.
 
Quickly realizing that dealing with hundreds of new breeds instead of the
handful they had started with was a tremendous task, the gnomes made a fateful
decision to create a race of helpers capable of handling simple jobs in order
to allow the gnomes to concentrate more thoroughly on their experiment.  The
gnomes mixed their own race's genes with that of their best experimental breed
and installed the directive 'take orders, assist and obey'.  With that, the
first hobbits came into being.
 
The first hobbits were something of a disappointment.  They had been mixed
from a concoction of bear cub, mouse and gnome gene, but the combination of
the rodent's small brain with the poor intellectual development of a bear cub
resulted in a simpleminded creature.  Worse still, the directive of their gnome
creators had become corrupted by the lack of mental facilities in the first
hobbits.  Later studies showed the first hobbits could only understand the
first word of the directive.
 
While further revisions of the initial design were tried, none proved to have
the diligence the gnomes had hoped for.  The hobbits directive had turned into
a need to pilfer anything and everything the gnomes left around.  As helpers,
the hobbits were worthless; too often the directions were beyond the hobbits
ability to understand.  Or, if they did understand, unsupervised hobbits had
an inclination to get themselves into predicaments.  Their sole benefit was
an instinctual knowledge of farming and agriculture which not even the chief
gnome experimenter could explain.  By the experiments end, the gnomes deemed
it best to release their hobbit assistants with the other creations and let
them fend for themselves; not one gnome wanted to take credit or responsibility
for taking care of the hobbits.
