General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE HUMAN SCOURGE

No one is exactly sure where the humans came from.  According to some, they
resulted from some bizarre cross breeding that characterized the early years of
the gnome experiment.  Ryure Bloodaxe, Darmok of the dwarves at the time of
the humans arrival insisted to his dying day that the humans were the result of
elven magic upon a hobbit, for humans combined the annoying nature of the
furfoots with the aggressiveness of drow enchantments.  Hobbits of course never
liked this characterization, and have even been known to give away or discard
something if it is discovered to have belonged to Ryure.  Gnome scholars are
said to have conducted some studies into human heritage, but the results were
never revealed and one of the easiest ways to upset a gnome is to ask questions
about where the results are or what they might contain.  Some have even
theorized that humans were yet another product of Faerie magik, but most who
have advanced this theory are usually thought crazy unless they qualify the
statement as Faerie magik gone completely bad.
 
Regardless of their origins, what is not disputed is that they quickly became a
force to be reckoned with on The World.  Drifting from some area to the south,
the humans spread into the civilized lands, quickly adapting to whatever
terrain and problems they encountered.  Breeding at a much faster race then any
of the faerie kin, it was clear that within a few dozen centuries humans would
outnumber the other Four Races combined.
 
The greatest threat though was that these early humans seemed to bear no sense
of responsibility or long term planning.  Perhaps it was due to their short
life spans that they did not concern themselves with the repercussions of what
they did.  Nevertheless, the humans represented not only a threat to the
equilibrium, but the potential for annihilation for everyone.  This fact was
not lost on the Four Races, and what they would do about it was to have
important repercussions in later years.
