General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE FAERIE KIN CONFERENCE

The early humans represented the single biggest threat to any of the other
faerie races.  More adaptive then any of them and with designs on areas long
held as being ancestral homes of the Four Races, they represented a sizable
threat to each of them.  Worse, humans were relatively short lived so that
within a few hundred years they would outnumber the faeriekin.  Their short
lives also made their logical reasoning suspect, and past interactions with
them had proven that they were distrustful of non-humans, regarding everyone
else as an animal.

Gnomes were most cognizant of the potential for disaster this represented.
Worse, something they had discovered in their human-research inspired a great
fear in them.  Something had to be done to avoid this problem before it
destroyed all of them.  And so, gnome envoys went to enclaves of the Four Races
to request a representative for a conference.

Much time was spent just in choosing a location for this event, and even more
time in establishing protocols, for there was still much distrust amongst the
various races, and no one wanted to be seen as less than equal.  In the end,
the conference was established as a non-voting body who would hear ideas from
each of the Four Races on possible solutions.  What each race would do with
those ideas was up to them.

When the delegations finally sat down, it was the first time a member from each
of the Four Races had been present in one place at one time.  The fact that the
majority of each delegations was nothing more than an armed guard betokens the
distrust, but the fact that they came at all speaks of the threat they
perceived in the humans.  Much of the transcript of that meeting involves
racial insults and face saving arguments, but by the end of the third day, a
consensus of action had been reached.  It would require another 5 days to fully
hash out but the resulting idea was to yet again change the very nature of The
World.
