General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE CRIME LORDS

With the demihumans beginning to wreak havoc upon civilization, Logrus
made his first appearance amongst the civilized races.  While he concealed
his Faerie heritage, he quickly became regarded as a powerful magician, for
the art of magic was mere child's play for one used to controlling raw and
unbridled magik.

Logrus's arrival was at a time when civilization was at its bleakest.  Torn
by centuries of strife and feeding on itself intentionally, Logrus found his
task simple.  He quickly pointed out the new threat the demihumans posed
and played upon this fear to cause panic amongst the citizens.  And when
possible, Logrus used the long standing hatreds as a basis for inducing
paranoia regarding enemies and friends alike.

As the enclaves descended further into fear and terror, the various leaders
began to arm themselves against the demihumans.  Anyone with a blade and
knowledge of how to use it could find a place in the militias that were
being built.  And as one enclave developed a militia, this induced fear
in their neighbors, forcing them to make their own militias.  The first
would feel justified in the construction of their original militia, but
scared by the arming of their neighbors, and so would build additional
militias.

The militias required constant training, and so it came to happen that if
there was no local war, they often turned to acting as guards for the
local caravans or returned to the task of trade raiding, but now as a
military unit.  Quickly the roads became unsafe, as bored militias lurked
waiting to overtake the common traveler at the instant vigilance was lost.

The expense of keeping these militias in the field was also costly, areas
often neglected to pay them in a timely fashion, allowing them to keep
what booty they could capture.  More often then not, the militias began
to capture booty not from the enemy, but from those they had been
designed to defend.  The worst offenders of this practice became known
as the Crime Lords.
