General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE MEETING OF GALEK AND LOGRUS

Galek was appalled at the recent events.  His teachings of peaceful
coexistence had back-fired dramatically, instead bringing about a
major war that seemed certain to devastate rather than save The World.
He was fully ready to concede defeat to Logrus at the meeting, and
this Logrus knew.

     But it was Logrus that spoke first as the two Faeries met.  "I have failed
      you know", he began.

     "Failed?  How better to achieve your ends than through a war?  You
      have succeeded far better than I."

     "Have I?" countered Logrus, "Look about you.  It was not about causing
      a war, it was about returning the inhabitants of this realm to our own.
      It has been 132 years since I last set foot on our own plane, and in all
      that time how many lostkin have agreed to come home?  I can count on one
      hand the number of  lostkin who even admit to accepting the idea that
      they did not originate here, and not one of them was willing to return."

     "Aye, my own results in that matter have been equally as depressing."
      bemoaned Galek.

     "So what are we to do friend Galek?"

     "What can we do?  Staying here will cost us all that we have gained.
      My followers are beginning to doubt me, I fear it will not be long
      before my influence is lost."

     "Yes, my own lieutenants are already speaking of revolution to replace me.
      I think it is time to leave The World.  Perhaps when what we have started
      here has run its course, a few more of the lostkin will be better able to
      accept what we offer them."

     "This conflict will run for many years you realize?"

     "You forget I too am Faerie.  Of course I realize this brother Galek.  But
      if there is anything left of our kin's Faerie self, it will flee from this
      madness and seek us out."

     "Or seek to change things."

     "I believe we've had this debate before."

     "Yes, it does sound familiar.  I make you this promise friend Logrus,
      you watch for lostkin seeking an escape, and I will keep an eye out for
      those seeking changes.  Those that do so without our presence are most
      likely to be open to an offer home."

     "Agreed"

     "I believe we can leave things as they are.  What we have started has no
      end in sight."

     "Not quite.  Your Galekians may be used to cooperation, but I am afraid
      my own forces would descend into civil war unless there is a strong
      leader at its head."

     "You plan on staying?  What are you saying?"

     "Not at all.  This World has too much regret for me to stay, I need only
      install my successor successfully, and I shall be free to leave.  Your
      assistance in this matter would be most helpful."

A short time later, Logrus summoned his chief lieutenant, Bishop Seklor.
His order was to summon forth the greatest Daemon ever known.  And so
it was that the Arch Vampire came into being.  Seklor was exhausted from
the summoning, and Logrus ordered him to rest, while he and the Daemon
would go to meet Galek for the final time.

Within moments, Seklor and those with him saw powerful explosions and
the mightiest display of magik since the time of the High Ones.  By the
accounts of eyewitnesses, the battle lasted throughout the night.  It was
another day and night before anyone was able to approach the plateau, so
thick was the magical residue.  Those on the scene reported finding the
plain had been blasted flat except for a shallow cavern in which the
battered Daemon was found.  The bodies of Galek and Logrus were never
recovered.  Seklor and his followers took the Daemon back to the
Cult and a short time later, the Arch Vampire took over the leadership
of the Cult, and led it into the Fifth Age of The World...
