Gunderi's quest

  It was said to believe that the birth of the overlords was no accident.
Even the gnomes at the time of Shercadia posed this question in the
conference of the four races, to which no one answered since the
Overlords posed no immediate threat, they dismissed the matter and
concentrated on humans and what was to be done about them.

  Gunderi, chief gnome at the time, sent a hobbit scout to the Drow in
hopes that they would have some information regarding the dark overlords.
Days had passed, weeks then months...  Nothing was heard of the overlords nor
did the hobbit return from his task.  Strife, and other matters consumed
much of Gunderi's time and it wasn't until nearly a year later that Gunderi
with a handful of his best warriors set leave for Mount Shang'ry where the
first overlord was seen.

  Shang'ry was ruled by Benqure, a human leader who was surprised by the
gnomes visit, since it was known that gnomes mostly hid from The World.
Gunderi asked for an inspection of Benqure's land, at this
the leader agreed if only they would stay and discuss matters
of worldly affairs for a short time.  Benqure's son, L'yrel who was only
twelve at the time and had been listening from his chambers...

  L'yrel was a young man with fair skin and ice blue eyes that
pierced through the strands of silky hair that covered much of his face.
He strode into the throne room and spoke, "Father" in a presumptuous tone,
"do not talk to these wretched creatures, I do not trust them."  All eyes
turned to him in silence and for the first time did Gunderi see into those
pools of ice blue...  It sickened him.

  After sentencing L'yrel to his chambers, Benqure asked his son be
forgiven for his outburst and that he would be dealt with accordingly.
The gnomes agreed and carried on chatting most of the night before
inspecting the base of the mountain.  After a careful search, the gnomes
found nothing, not a trace of an Overlord.  Gunderi returned to his home-
lands after giving much thought to how can one being could kill hundreds
and survive?  A counter thought returned. "A strong evil being continues
to be reckless until it is destroyed by the tempo of its own misdeeds.
Evil has in it, buried subtly, the infallible seeds of its own
destruction.  Good prevails over evil, if not immediately then in a
thousand years.  If not then, then in ten thousand years.  If not in this
world, then in other worlds..."  This thought pleased him...
