Event 1

Hide and Seek Competition:

An immortal will stand in a room in the city of Grimhaven. (city walls and
barracks are included, sewers aren't) First mortal to find the immortal
wins the competition and is awarded his level*10000 talens.

Event 2

Group Challenge:

The five top players are chosen to be leaders of 5 different groups. Then
they choose their members one by one, starting with the lowest so as to
make it fair. All groups are thrown in the tourny arena when they are
ready and the last surviving group that kills all the other groups wins.
The survivors of that group each wins a POY, the guys from that group that
didn't survive win 1000*level talens, leader gets an item her/his choice
that is not maxed or an artifact. Event will be repeated three times.
(frankly i don't expect many to survive he-he)

Event 3

Class Championship:

Each pc of a certain class is set to go against other pcs of that class.
Multiclasses are counted as one class. Triple classes are counted as one
too. They pcs will go one on one and winner moves up and fights the winner
of another pair, till finally there is one champion. Champion of that
class gets a POY and is eligible for the next event. The second place just
gets 1000*level.

Event 4

Ultimate Championship:

All champions of each class are thrown together into the tourny arena. The
final survivor is declared the ultimate champion and gets a minor wish. If
a pc has two pcs that are champions of two classes, he/she will have to
choose only one to play with at the ultimate championship. The second
place pc of the class that pc didn't pick will automatically go up and play
the ultimate championship.

Event 5

Level Wars:

Each range of 10 levels will be thrown in the tourny of the arena and will
fight to the end. The final survivors of each range are granted an item
that is not maxed or is not an artifact.

Event 6

Total War:

Probably most chaotic of all events. All levels and classes are thrown in
the arena to fight to death. Final survivor gets a minor wish and declared
Lord of Wars.

other events might be added later by Darkanan.


