Bounty Hunter (TM) v1.11 ---     Operators manual
 
INTRO:
There is a new type of mob in the game, the bounty
hunter.  This mob is capable of hunting down specific
items and specific players.  Thus, bloody rampages might
occur if they are misused.  I trust that the immortals
of this fine mud have enough ethics and common sense
to know what constitutes appropriate use of such power.
 
WHO'S A HUNTER?
There are 6 types, virtual #'s 14-19.  A "show m hunter"
might be helpful.  They are intended to be aimed at the
following rough ranges of player ability:
 
#14 - Bully                  1-10
#15 - Ruffian               10-20
#16 - Soldier of Fortune    20-30
#17 - Bounty Hunter         30-40
#18 - Master Bounty Hunter  40-50
#19 - Big Jim Slade   45+   [SPECIAL CASES ONLY!]
 
WHO CAN SEND OUT A HUNTER?
Sending out a hunter to kill a PC higher than 10th level
requires approval of a 58th level or above.  If the PC is
a newbie ( < 10th level), a 56 may approve the use of a
hunter.  Sending out a hunter for an item requires approval
of a 56.  ANY SENDING OUT OF A MASTER HUNTER OR BIG JIM
SLADE REQUIRES 59+ approval.  You have been warned.

WHY SEND OUT HUNTERS?
Hunters were designed under the same principle as the
ring-wraith -- make good items dangerous to have, and they
become more valuable.  Send out hunters for items that
are in over-abundance.  Send out hunters for items that
are undervalued (gypsy medallion for example).  Send out
hunters for items that players just plain shouldn't have,
but you don't feel like being a prick about it and taking
it away yourself.  Also, if a player is making a nuisance
of themselves, to the point where you would like them to
go away for awhile, but site-banning would perturb other
people from that site, use the hunter to 'kill' them.
The hunter will guarantee they don't bring their PC on.
 
HOW TO SEND OUT HUNTERS:
Prefix all commands by saying: hunter, <command-here...>
Commands are:
repo <item-name>   ...   use hyphens like:  small-sword
kill <player name>  ...   hunter will kill and keep killing
no mercy           ...   don't give any chances 
show mercy         ...   give 3 chances
status             ...   what are you doing?
forget             ...   clear your memory 
version            ...   proud author brags away
 
SPECIAL NOTE [IMPORTANT]:
To send a hunter out for a particular item, string the 
name of the item to include a 'signature'.  I.e., sword-ancients 
becomes sword-ancients-xzz.  Then use the command:
'hunter, repo sword-ancients-xzz'
Easy, huh?
