******  This file is a hold over from 2.5, it badly needs updating, but
******  most of it still holds true  -bat

The following is a set of guide-lines for better role playing in The World of
<h>.  Since 99% of roleplay is adapting to The World as it happens
(cause and effect) do not feel bound by what you see here, but take it as a
good place to start from.  Feel free to disregard or do things differently if
the situation demands it, that, after all, is what role-playing is all about.
Below is a list of things that you should have a look at before you start to
role play a given mob.  
 
The mobs description:  This will give you a good idea of what the mob desires
from life as well as its outlook on The World.
ex)     Aunt Bee is short, fat and lovable - she probably seeks to be
liked and to be at "one with The World"
 
The mobs level: This will determine your attitude toward others.
ex)     High level will want respect from those about them, especially on their
own turf and from "outsiders."  It isn't seemly to be looked down upon by some
newcomer foreigner in front of your friends.
ex)     Mid Level will respond according to the treatment they receive.  
Essentially, they will be favorable to everyone until that person treats them
unkindly.  A do unto others... attitude.
ex)     Low level kiss ass.  I am unworthy of you, master.  You are much better
then I.  Would you please help such a lowly piece of trash as myself?
HINT) play the mob similar to the way the people who are just barely able to
solo them would.  A level 1 can solo a wombat, but a L1 will suck up big-time
to EVERYONE, therefore you should suck up if you are playing a wombat.  A
triple class buff L50 _might_ solo the demi-lich.  How does a L50 buff pc treat
the others around him? -somewhat contemptuously unless they prove themselves to
be worthy of respect.  Ditto for Mr. Demi.
 
The mobs alignment:  This will determine what the mob will do first.
ex)     Alignment 1000 will seek a peaceful solution to a problem first but CAN
be pressured to attack.
ex)     Alignment -1000 would as soon as kill you as look at you.
ex)     Alignment 0 indicates they are initially indifferent, assistance from a
PC will make a mob like the pc, insults will push the mob toward attack.
 
The mobs aggressiveness:  Aggros won't put up with much at all.  Important tip,
when you are switched, your aggro mob will not attack naturally.  Caveat, do
not assume that merely because you saw (x) has entered the room from the north.
that he is not sneaking and you are free to attack him.  (remember that any 50+ 
sees the enter/exit commands as would a god despite actual sneaking status)
(see the section below on suggestions for this situation)
 
The mobs class and race:  Certain races will have hatreds and likes for other
races and classes.  Also, race and class also affect general outlook on the 
world and will sometimes dictate how they will react.
ex)     spell casters hate fighter types        (converse)
ex)     elves hate dwarves                      (converse)
ex)     the undead despise the living           (living fear the dead)
ex)     dragons like to hoard equipment.  This may go to the extent of coveting
a certain item.  Such an item would be classified as an artifact - rare, 
powerful and valuable.  It would not be a every-reboot load item nor something
that can be gotten easily.  If you go this route, be careful.  i.e. were the 
green dragon to hear of the existence of the glowing ring, he might desire one.
He wouldn't know who had it (might go looking, but are notoriously lazy).
ex)     the 'lil folk hate giants               (giants find 'lil folk amusing)
ex)     Strongly good hate strongly evil        (converse)
note: this is not Aunt Bee (1000) hating the senior monks (-1000), it is more or
less, the sheriff (force of good in The World) hating Gilbert the Gangster
(force of evil) 
----anything else along these lines will work if it is "logical"
 
 
-----------Roleplay in a situation where a fight is developing
1)  A god is allowed to make a mob do things "outside-the-norm" when inhabiting
the mob - provided the mob would do such a thing.
2)  Always use common sense, you DO NOT need to appease the PC's, but realize
the success of the mud depends on keeping enough players playing.  
3)  "fucking with them" in a fight is a touchy subject.  Don't follow them 
around and switch into every mob (that's harassment and you can't properly 
role-play it) but if you're in a mob and they decide to kill you, feel free to
play it out.  
4)  If you decide to pay a visit to a bunch of people who have already started
a big mob, make sure you give adequate (read, A LOT OF) warning that the mob is
being role-played now.  If this fact bothers them and they move to another mob
rather then fight the role-played one, do not switch to whom they move to.  In
fact, the opportunities to play an outraged, partially wounded mob that has
not been finished off are probably greater then what you would find in whomever
you switched to (the revenge-gambit can be fun, use thought though)
5)  IT IS the mobs "job" to eventually die!  They don't have to die stupidly
and can go down fighting, but don't endlessly avoid combat to preserve the mob's
life, at some point, stop fleeing the mob/hiding out or whatever, and die like
you're supposed to.  Make sure that "some time" is well before the players get
royally pissed.
 
Q) I'm an aggro dragon, a bunch of adventurers just walked in, what will I do?
A) Well, first off, chances are they are sneaking.  Since you are in the mob,
you'll see the enter/exit messages if you're 50+ despite sneaking status.  As 
you are in the mob, the natural aggressiveness of the mob is taken away (he 
won't attack unless you force him to.)  If all they do is walk in, assume they
are sneaking.  However, if they start talking, using socials or otherwise draw
attention to the fact that they are there: "Who's there?"  (sniff)  "I can 
smell you, human!" (peer) "ahh there you are" (look player) (growl) (grin)
(attack) ALTERNATIVELY: "get away from my hoard, human, or die!" (wait a few 
rounds) "I said, leave!" (few more rounds) "then DIE!" (attack).  Some mobs will
defend territory, some mobs will defend objects, some mobs will defend their 
own lives.  When a mob feels threatened, he is justified in attacking.  (do not
just attack though, give warning and reason for what you are doing.  There is 
no he "kills on sight" in role-playing, there must always be reason given.) 
 
Q) I'm playing a mob and the PC's are picking on me, taunting me and making rude
gestures, I feel as if I should attack, can I?
A) This depends largely on the mob.  High levels will put up with very little
in the way of shit.  Medium levels will get equally angered but will hold back
from actually fighting longer, they'll probably just start saying and acting
in an equivalent manner.  Low levels will grovel and say "I'm not worthy to
walk the ground you spit upon"  Good alignment will seek a peaceful solution
first, but might attack if adequately provoked (a lot of warnings).  Evil would
give little in the way of warning (maybe a growl and a "say that again and DIE!"
type line as all the warning they give, if provoked again, attack) 
 
Q) While actually involved in a fight, what am I allowed to do?
A) the only command that has any effect for you is flee.  You are allowed to 
flee your mob if you think the situation warrants it.  Fleeing is ignoble and
some mobs would prefer not to, but no mob _wants_ to die stupidly.  Flee if
massively hurt (BLEEDING and the tank is at small wounds or something). Flee
if a better combat situation will definitely result (bee is being attacked, the
sheriff walks in and starts pounding on bee, bee would flee to get out of the
combat with the sheriff)
 
Q) OK, I fled, now what?
A) A tricky question.  Are you REAL hurt and the other side is ok?  then you 
might go and try to heal.  A mob should not run all over The World to escape, 
but it might move a few rooms and hide-out.  A mob is expected to know that it
is hurt, that time will heal its wounds.  And that if healing is slow, it is
probably poisoned.  It would NOT know what potions/scrolls that it doesn't
own are for.  If the mob is poisoned, it won't run off to Zifnab and buy a white
potion or go to Moria and kill for it.  It might Mob: "Aaarggh, I'm poisoned"
PC: "heh, stupid dragon, go get a white potion" mob: "what's it do?"
pc: "cures ya" mob:"where is one?" Obviously, if something like this doesn't 
happen, do nothing, follow the advice if it seems worthwhile (even if wrong, but
has the "air of truth" to it.  i.e. they told you white potion cures you, and 
can be found in enfan land, you might go looking if you knew where enfan was)
 
A2) HOWEVER, you might not flee and heal.  If the situation isn't that desperate
(you still have a few thousand hp but were BLEEDING, or some real big mob was
pounding you at random) you might just wander back in and defend your territory.
This is especially true of the reclusive,aggressive,highlevel mob types.  BE
WARNED, this is a touchy area!  DO NOT just immediately return and start 
pounding at random!  Mob: "You son-of-a-bitches, how dare you attack me?!?"
(pause a few combat rounds) "I'll teach you!" (few rounds) (attack)
 
Q) I'm in a situation where I can attack, any limitations or suggestions?
A) Assume some intelligence, it need not be random and in fact, a mob will 
probably try and take out the weak and infirm first.  Don't look at them to
find out their status, but if you saw one of them flee assume them to be hurt.
Also, pick out the lower level guys first, mobs realize that they have fewer
hit points. (yes, this is a death-to-newbies attitude, but more to the point
its a attack the guy who thought he'd be safe "just hitting behind the tank")
Tie in any hatreds!  Kalas might want to pound someone who meteor swarmed him.
 
Q) I just killed someone, now I feel bad, what do I do?
A) Did you give adequate warning that the mob was being role-played?  Did you
give them adequate warning that you might attack them rather then wait to be 
attacked?  Did you think "who would the mob pick on?" as opposed to "who do
I (the god) want to kill?"?  If you answered yes, then there is probably no
problem.  After the fact, think, "did I role-play that mob correctly and well?"
This is the hardest question.  When in the middle of it, you have to make spot-
decisions which MIGHT BE WRONG from a role-playing stand point.  If you have
SERIOUSLY screwed up, review it with another god, if you both agree, reimburse.
Otherwise, there probably isn't cause for it despite the PC's griping.
 
Q) If I am switched into a mob, and i walk around and stumble across a fight,
what am I allowed to do?
A) Tough question.  Do you hold a particular love or hatred for either side of
the fight?  Is there any reason that you would fight?  A good align mob might
"stop this fight at once!" "Help police, fist fight at (x)" Unless there's real
good reason to, you probably wouldn't get involved.  However, maybe you would.
Now you have to ask, which side?  Obviously, if you side against the players
they might gripe, have a reason to if you do this.  Feel free to side with the
players if they have been helpful or if the mob isn't to your switched mobs 
liking. 
WARNING: if you are switched, and you come across a fight, you will NOT be 
thrown automatically into the fight provided you stay in the mob.  Be careful
that you don't RETURN from your switched mob while a fight is going on before
your mobs eyes.  Once you leave the body, he is free to join in and if you've
moved him near the fight, it isn't really fair to either party.  The line:
"hey, i wasn't in the mob when he attacked you" is pretty flimsy.
 
Q) I was role playing a mob, something weird happened and now the PC's are 
blaming me (the god) for something I didn't do.
A) This is bound to happen.  In most cases, its just that they assumed you 
forced the mob to do something unusual when in fact you didn't.  If you happen
to be in an aggro, and the players know this, and one of them comes in not
sneaking, the mob's natural aggressiveness might kick in.  If you weren't in
the mob, they would see it for what it was (failed sneak).  But since you were
role-playing, they assume you made it attack them.  Likewise, if a dragon 
should kill someone and later they get the corpse and find things missing they
assume the dragon stole from them rather then realize that the breath weapon
destroyed stuff.
Q) So what do I do if they think I am doing something I'm not?
A) Tell them, explain what exactly you did do. "yes, I fled the mob and made it
move east.  I had it talk to you a few times.  But you have to remember that
a dragonsbreath destroys items."  Usually, they will see the truth in what you 
say (especially since it is the truth).  If they still bitch (likely if they
died for being "stupid"-i.e. for thinking a role-played mob wouldn't do anything
the normal mob wouldn't) then refer them to a higher level god. If they are 
pissed at you personally, having an arbitrator (higher level god) is a good 
idea.  Admit if you have made a serious mistake, take corrective actions if it
warrants it - but these guide lines _should_ eliminate any need for corrective
action.
