The only hard and fast rule is to use good judgment...   :)

Have a look at HELP GODS (this is the mortal help file) as it may be of help.
There are a handful of actual, technical rules but for the most part feel
free to break or bend them if there is a good reason to.

1.) don't have a mortal and an immortal character on at the same time.  It
just looks like you are cheating.

2.) don't interfere with a mortal's problem if you can at all help it.   Be
friendly, don't ignore them, but be non-partisan about it.  Get used to saying
"Sorry, I can't interfere like that, maybe you should read help gods..."
This covers everything from "can you loan me...", "can you trans me..." and
"can you recover my corpse..."

3.) If a problem comes up and you have a way to solve it, do so.  ie. if you've
got the wizcommand its because we want you to use it.  You can always defer
to the highest god on, but the high gods usually prefer the lowest level god
capable of handling the problem deal with it.

4.) Don't be afraid to deal with "jerks".  In order of ascending punishment:
personal chat, put them in slap-on-the-wrist (room 77), send um to hell (room
70), banish a specific character, wizlock the site, wipe the character (59+)

5.) If a real bad problem comes up, wizlock it.  Someone higher up can always
unwizlock it if you were wrong.  If it is crashing constantly, probably best to
wizlock it.  If there's a bug that's being badly exploited, attempt to change
the command's level or wizlock it.

6.) ON PLAYING MORTALS:  While we encourage gods to continue to play as a
mortal in order to find and report problems, we must ask that you play in a
way that attracts new players and keeps the existing ones happy.  It is
suggested that you not reveal that so-and-so mortal is in any way related to
your immortal char as past experience has shown that regardless of how you
play, folks will assume a certain amount of cheating occurs and this is
usually detrimental to the fun of playing a mortal and to your reputation as 
a god.

6b.) EQUIPMENT FOR YOUR MORTAL:  Additionally, do not hoard items.  Where
rare equipment (limited 10 or less) is concerned, you can keep it for a week or
so after obtaining it but at some point you should quietly junk (not give/sell
or auction) it so that normal players have the enjoyment of discovering and
obtaining the specialty items.  Where artifact (limited 3 or less) equipment
is concerned, you may never possess it.  If it comes into your possession,
quietly junk it at your first opportunity.

6c.) KEEPING YOUR MORTS/IMMORTS SEPARATE: This is fairly strictly enforced.
As a mortal, do not indicate that you are also an immortal under any
circumstances.  Do not attempt to enforce rules from your mortal, either log
the mortal out and log the immortal in, or contact an immortal presently
logged in (if you have to, tell that other immortal who you are).  Obviously,
never reveal who other immorts mortals are, and for the most part avoid using
the users or access commands to determine what mortals a given immortal uses.
If your having a conversation between two immortals (eg, discussing building
stuff), either go somewhere totally private, use tell, or log in your immortal
character.

----------------------

Never feel obligated to do something.  We all started mudding because it was
fun and the reason we "god" is to let others have fun.  That does not mean we
have to make personal sacrifices though so that others can have fun. If someone
needs a god, and you have a RL thing to deal with, tell them you have to go and 
then leave.  Remember that this is only a game.  Nobody's paying us to be here
and nobody expects you to do anything you don't want to do.

See Also: ummmm, i dunno, common sense I guess   :)
Related Topics: GOD
