ITEM CHANGES

To prevent  1) Item hoarding, and 2) corpse looting :

The following are now in effect :

1) Most items in the game are now restricted to players of a certain level
    and above.  The restriction is based on the difficulty of the mob that
    loads with the item as well as the item quality.

2) You cannot get an item that you can't use. i.e. Joeblow who is level 1
    can't rob bee's corpse, because he isn't high enuff to get the stuff
    from the corpse in the first place.

3) You cannot give an item to anyone who can't use it. i.e. Level 40 character
    can't give a storage character, or any other character any items that
    is something they aren't high enough level to use.

4) You can't rent with an item you can't use. Soon(within the next week)
    all items in rent that are on characters who can't use them will be deleted.
    You have from now until then to either get them transferred, or get the
    character they are on up to the correct level.

5) For further realism, all objects now have volume as well as weight.  You
   may find yourself either not strong enough to carry your load, or not
   dextrous enough to juggle so much bulk. Bags will help you work with too
   much volume easier.  In addition, tying up your hands by holding a sword
   and shield will reduce your volume capacity accordingly.

6) Food spoils if not refridgerated or stored properly.  It is virtually
   impossible for the adventuring person to port around a refridgerator,
   so get used to your bread molding and being destroyed automatically.

7) In the opinion of the implementor, players should be devoting themself to
    either "fighter skills" or "magic skills".  The former demands big +hitndam
    items, while the later prefers +mana.  In an attempt to encourage this
    trend, many of the +mana items are now -tohit or -hitndam.   

8) The potions of the game will lose their potency if carried around too long.
    The rough treatment potions tend to get rattling around in a knapsack makes
    them lose their fizz after awhile.

See Also: VOLUME
Related Topics: GENERAL INFO
