# fortune teller
5 407
For only 5 talens, I give knowledge!  Just type buy.
Boats are plentiful in the swamps.
The trolls are hiding a secret.
The Sage knows where to acquire magic.
The secret to bows can be found by a river.
Gnomes fear trolls.
Don't go deep into Haon Dor.
Thieves stick to busy places.
The walls have eyes.
Stay true to your religion, it will be rewarded.
You must gain the key to your house.
Using horses and other mounts is a good way to travel.
You can ride horses, dactyls, hippogriffs, moose, caribou and some deer.
Climbing and swimming is easier with empty hands.
Sitting, resting or sleeping ON an object is the fastest way to regenerate lost health and move.
Beware the dragon's breath!
Find your trainers and guildmasters!
You should buy a FAQ at the pawn shop!
The unaffiliated should harm other factions equally!
Grimhaven's natives will share their knowledge, if you just know how to ask.
Those who strive on the fortunes of others could benefit from visiting the den of thieves!
Young mages will discover a wealth of knowledge in the mages' academy.
For basic weapons training, follow in the footsteps of Grimhaven's cityguards.
It is claimed that the curative powers come to those that study with the greatly religious.
A mighty deikhan defends the temple of Kalysia.
Seek the city beneath the waves.
Marihati has been tried 3 times as a spy.
The Arden prince is skilled with a bow.
A showman in the frontier town is able with the blade.
Many visit the gnoble of war for training.
The most skillful swordsman in all The World guards the frontier.
The dwarven priests are very devout.
Ahlusa'ir teaches the faithful.
Prince Merlin is a great wizard.
A trainer in Pantathia tutors the wizards.
The best doctor in all The World is missing.
The trolls have captured someone very powerful.
Only the zen trainer hears the noise of a tree falling in the forest.
Penny-pinchers have powerful hands.
For a good brawl, visit a wolf pit.
Caine'lo has learned to fight.
Crime bosses are a murderous scourge.
Hood the Bandit is a bloody thief.
Tatsoro specializes in inflicting pain.
Frusnol maintains Kalysia's magic.
Yerggrah knows the ways of nature.
The druids will train you in spirit magic.
Great sorcerers reside in the Circle.
The flame of Galek is a powerful fire.
Gnomes are great earth movers.
Beware of long falls.
Powerful items are much sought after.
Dwarves should avoid ocean travels.
The apocalypse is coming.
Flee the Horsemen!
An exiled mage knows how to get to the Circle.
Enter the celestial gates!
The celestial gates appear once a day in Logrus and Brightmoon!
Be at the top of the tree in the park at noon on April 4th.
Faction affiliation percentage is not all about who you've killed, it also looks at who you've helped.
The way through the force field can be obtained from the Mystic.
The ancient Mystic shares his abode with some hounds.
All warfare is based on deception.
A hooded assassin is known to provide garrottes.
The Old Sage is a spellcaster's best friend.
Thieves shops are located in Grimhaven, Kalysia and Amber.
