GENERAL INTRODUCTION:
  Generally, we are a non-intervention mud.  What does this mean. It means
that Gods do not interfere in mortal affairs without reason.  This file
will hopefully give some guidance on appropriate god conduct and when and
how to use certain of your commands.  As you read this you will note that
it is *not* the purpose of any of the following guidelines to restrict
your fun, it is to remind you that you should use only mortal commands
such as shout and tell when you are having fun which is not related to
your official duties.  Do not use god commands like system, force, goto,
and transfer if it's not related to your official duties.  Keeping to this
general principle will make us the envy of the mud world and lead to our
consideration as a top flight immortal staff. 

SYSTEM COMMAND:
  For most levels of gods, System comes with a message stating that it is
an official announcement.  There is a reason for this.  Do not use system
for any reason that is personal to you.  If you want to crack a joke,
shout or tell to the pc, or better yet use a mob to shout.  Shouting
banter is a large part of <h> and I wouldn't change that.  You are
allowed to be a person as an immortal, just don't use system for that. Use
system for official announcements. 

MORTAL INTERACTION:
  You are not on as a god to *interact* with mortals in The World.  Again,
we aren't anal about it, you are allowed to talk to players, shout banter,
and otherwise communicate in your non-immortal persona.  The best guidance
here is to use tell or your office to talk to PC's.  You should only goto
the mortal world to *interact* in order to check on bugs which a pc wants
to show you, to switch into a mob, or to otherwise act as a god. If you
want to talk to someone, trans them to your office.  If there is a group
of players you want to say hello to, you can visit within reasonable
limits.  If you want to hang with them go mortal and hang all you want. 

  If you want to interact as your immortal, seek quest authority or switch
into a mob and role play.  If it is personal communication, (i.e your old
friend is on), trans them to your office and talk all you want. If you
want to show them the mud, use a mortal or get consent of a 56+ immortal
to show them the mud as a visitor. 

QUESTS AND SWITCHING
Quests require the approval of the Lord Of Quests.  In order to run a quest
you must relay to the Lord of Quests information regarding the nature of
your quest, the mobs that will be used, the rewards that will be given and
most importantly the affects and effects that will be felt on and by the
citizens of Grimhaven (mostly newbies).

Failure to follow these rules will result in disciplinary action.  If you 
do not have the approval of the Lord of Quests - then DO NOT RUN A QUEST.

  Secondly, there are probably announcements of one sort of another.  That
means you are drawing people into the quest and/or making them decide if
they want to take a risk.  Since they have decided to join, you are able
to put more dangers in their path. 

  With a switch, you are basically going to where the mort is (instead of
him coming to you).  Since a switch forces them to participate, its
assumed your roleplay is fairly forgiving and allows them to get away. 

  With a quest, you do not need to be as forgiving, and for this reason we
prefer you seek permission. Obviously, other reasons for getting
permission are so that if something screws up, someone is there who can
fix stuff (@set etc). Additionally, I have yet to encounter a quest that
couldn't have benefitted from a few extra people playing key roles. 

FORCE
  Do not force people without their consent, similarly, do not follow
people around wizinvis for hours unless it is in spirit of role play. You
are allowed and encouraged to switch into mobs to role play.  If you want
to run a quest, go ahead and plan it and approach a 56+ to get authority.
The use of force again should not be used for personal reasons.  It can be
used to test something with a pc or show a pc something rather than
telling them.  It can be used if there is a good 'immortal' reason for
it like global saves.  It should not be used to play with someone who will
not like it no matter how tempting or to force people to shout things
(this I haven't seen). 

GOD FUNCTIONS:
  In general, 

51-53 Gods:  These are your liaison levels. 51-53 are expected to
give feedback on enjoyability/playability of the mud. keep an eye out for
potential flaws in the system, and recommend corrections. This is also
where you prove that you can be objective in your decisions, fairly
weighing player enjoyability with the need for balance. 

54-56 Gods: Handle the majority of player complaints (having proven they
can be objective).  Settle disputes, enforce what rules we do have and
keep lower level gods on the right path (help with building, or stepping
in when a player does not accept your ruling on a gripe).  

57+ Gods: Watch over and assist the 54-56 levels in handling both player
problems or newbie-god issues.  generally only handle problems by way of
referral (ie, if other lower level gods don't know answer). Realize things
are a 2-way street.  The coder's are not omniscient. If the 51-53 assumes
we know something doesn't work or has flaws then it will no doubt remain
broken.  If the 57+'s don't bother to give answers to the 56-'s, then
there is no one else qualified to deal with the problems but a 57+. 

PROBLEM HANDLING:
  In general, all mortal problems should go to the lowest god on. 
Obviously some stuff will have to be referred to a 54 (reimbursements and
such) but questions and complaints can be handled by anyone. Occasionally,
you will get players who are PO'd and mad.  Address their problem fairly. 
If you hit the stage where they don't accept your judgment (screaming
insults etc.), then start repeating the following mantra to them:  "I am
sorry, I have made my judgment.  You are free to appeal my decision to a
higher level god."  Feel free to tack on, "you might wait until you calm
down a bit before talking with them though". Bottom line though is get
yourself out of it. 

  Do not return insults, just continue to indicate he should speak with a
higher level god. If you get a problem player appealing to you, i highly
recommend that you ask them who they spoke to (for later verification if
needed), how that god ruled, and why the player thinks this ruling is
unfair. 

  Don't try and handle the problem from scratch, someone has already
ruled. Once someone has made a call, don't second guess it.  The only
reason to allow an appeal is if the lower god either was uninformed or
misinformed, or if there is strong indication that the judgment was not
made fairly (ala "I was pissed, so I deleted him").  Explain to the person
appealing that they have to explain why the judgment was in error. Key
phrases include: "I probably would not have made that call if it were me,
but since xxxx has already ruled, you'll have to tell me how his/her
decision was in error."  Avoid going over the same ground again, someone
has already made a ruling and overruling them without good cause
undermines their authority. 

  If they continue to bitch, say that you support the original decision
and they may continue to appeal on up the line. Any time they hit the "Why
are you being such a dick" phase, bail out, make a ruling and suggest they
appeal it if not happy with it.  If you continue to try and deal with
them, chances are you aren't going to get anywhere and will just piss them
off more. 

Do not enforce for or reimburse your own mortals at any time.  Your mortal
and immortal characters are entirely separate and work by different rules. 
Using your immortal to handle things that happenned to your mortal,
violates this principal and can lead to conflicts of interest in
enforcement.  Similarly, you should not enforce disputes in which you have
a friend or enemy as a party.  As an immortal staff, we are looking to
appear unbiased, calm, and fair. Last, if you are in an emotional mood or
get drawn in to an argument, consider turning the decision making over to
another god. 


PUNISHMENT AND THE USE OF AUTHORITY
  Your job should not turn into the thought police.  However, part of your
job is to generally monitor the mud including watching for bugs and
cheating.  This applies to all gods.  However, punishment of bug abuse
and/or cheating should only be done by 54+ immortals.  If you are below
this level you need to seek help in punishing mortals for cheating.  If
you are level 54 above you may take the following actions. if you need to
punish someone or someone is gratuitously screwing with you, you have
options.  You can 1.) slap them 2) hell them 3.) wizlock them or 4) seek
deletion.  In general, you will note that Force quit or fake deletions do
not fit into these parameters.  It takes a level 57+ god to wipe a
character. If you are 54, you must seek additional help if you wish to
take such actions.  Do not force quits or kill and destroy all if you are
54-56.  Again, players should say about <h>'s immortal staff that they
respect us cause we don't do cheesy things to them. 


TEST CHARACTERS
  One last note about test characters.  Test characters are fine to make
to test things.  However, do not cheat in making them. You must make your 
test characters in the testpc account.  You can find the password posted 
on the builders board.

  If you need a character set, find a god with set or wait till one is
free. Don't use the Med editor to get around this.  When you use test
characters, it is a good idea to name it something that makes it clear
that it is a test character for both your sake and mortals sakes.  Lastly,
keep the test character off the main mud. You should not group a test
character with a regular pc at any time. Your test character should not
shout. 

INVESTIGATING THE WORLD AND IMMORTAL AUTONOMY
  All the above deal with what we shouldn't be doing.  Now lets talk a
little about how you are supposed to do what we are supposed to do.  We
are supposed to learn a lot about The World.  We are supposed to build
balanced zones.  We are supposed to know what is happening in the
mortal-world.  We are supposed to answer mortal questions and investigate
possible cheating and bugs. 

  All these require interaction with the mortal world. The key is
understand that we encourage interaction, we discourage intervention. Talk
to people, play mortal, role play, if you have specific questions. If
something seems problematic in The World, investigate it or point it out
and investigate it. 

  Basically use your head. If you want to stat a mob or object in order to
build, do so within your immortal authority.  Immortal authority is your
only limit.  All immortals are authorized to stat The World in order to
build your zones.  You can use goto, show, load, and set if you have those
commands.  If you do not have those commands do not use other commands to
get around it. In other words, if you do not have load, do not buy
equipment, kill mobs for their equipment, or switch into a mob and have
them drop their gear. 

  Load is a 54+ command.  Load prototype is a 53.  You need items in order
to build items.  We know this and level 54+'s are there to help you by
loading you equipment for you to modify.  Thus, if you want an item and a 54
plus is not on, wait for them.  That is all you can do.  Getting around
set limits is frowned upon even deeper. I think we all know the temptation
here.  Do not take it even for the best of intentions.  If you don't have
load, you are not authorized to 1) reimburse equipment or 2) get equipment
yourself for your building. You must get the help of a 54+.  Understand
that all immortals are fully logged and logs do not show intentions and
motivations, they only show actions. If you have the command use it.  If
you don't, don't. 

  Finally, in my experience, I have found <h> pretty good about giving
immortals some privacy and autonomy in how they choose to use their
authority and how to construct your god personality.  There really isn't
anyone looking over your shoulder at every action you take.  The other
side of this equation is that higher gods tend to be highly critical and
come down hard upon situations of inappropriate conduct on the part of
immortals when it happens and we find out about it.  We are a high
standard mud.  Lets keep it that way. 
