
Hello, and welcome to immortality.  First things first.  This file is directed
toward a 51st level player, you are now "immortal" but are not a "god".  Because
you are assisting the mud by area-creation, you have been given a character
with a bit of privileges over the run-of-the-mill mortal.  DO NOT ABUSE THIS!

1. Do not interfere with the mortal realm. You're not allowed to go to enabled
zones, give equipment to mobs or players. As a new builder you have limited
capabilities. 

2. Do not share privileged information. As an immortal you have access to some
special information, use your commom sense to what should be passed on.
This applies specially to having access to immortal's indentities.

3. Get work done. If you don't show progress in a timely manner there is a
chance you get demoted. There isn't a specific timeframe, but we expect to
see progress. Let people and the LOW know what you're doing.

4. There is a certain conduct that is expected from you as an immortal AND from
your mortal characters now that you are on the staff. We work as a team. We
don't always agree with each other but we support one another. NO bitchy
attitude! Contructive criticism is welcome, be respectful and cooperative.

Ok, now that we have some ground rules, get acquainted with your powers. Our
general policy is that the more you contribute the more you earn our confidence,
which means: more powers, more autonomy. 

The immortal staff is just as friendly as the mortal staff. Ask questions, we'll
answer. There will always be someone willing to assist you in any way they can.

There is a book with a tutorial to help you get started in building. Conveniently,
it's called The Beginners Guide to Building and it can be found in the Immortal
Lounge bookshelf, room 2.

And last but not least... HAVE FUN! It's a lot of fun to bring things to life. You
should enjoy your new position, it's not all hard work. Sometimes Imperia gets
really busy and we goof around and just have fun.

See Also: WIZHELP
Related TOPICS: CONDUCT, RULES
