General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
EFFECTS OF THE COUNCIL

What the Council had failed to foresee was the extent to which the common Elf
would side with the feelings the drow had expressed.  The pacifistic attitudes
of the Council seemed antiquated to meet the challenges of the new world and 
its enemies.  And worse, the Council seemed unwilling to adapt, preferring, it 
seemed, death.  Elves returning to their own tribe following the council meeting
spoke disparagingly of the High One's decision, and the fact that so many had
died defending the High One's idealistic way of life added insult to injury.
The younger generations that had been told tales of the Faeries and the Elves
early days upon The World as if they were utter nonsense were the least willing
to subscribe to the High One's idealistic notions.

As generation upon generation went by, and the depredations of the dwarves
resumed and increased, fewer and fewer associated themselves with the flawed
Elven ideals and associated themselves (and their tribe) with the drow.
Within ten generations, not one major tribe still retained the Elf name, having
been forced to deal with The World's realities and respond as elves would - 
using any power or advantage they could.

During the same time, elven society flourished and prospered.  Elven tribes
scattered across The World and took up residence in distant, and sometime
harsh, climates.  Tribes took on the names of the landscape in which they
made their home.  No longer did they consider themselves one people, as 
the different tribes took on different attitudes to meet the challenges they
faced.  As Sea elves needed a different approach to obtaining food than the
Plains elves or Wood elves adapted, so each tribe cultivated its own traditions,
culture, and ultimately dialect and language.

The dwarves, for their part licked their wounds awhile, but had salvaged the
better part of valor.  As the elven tribes spread, the dwarf raiders followed -
taking up residence in nearby hills, mountains or whatever suited their fancy.
Their culture too began to fragment as mountain dwarves learned how to process
a different sort of ore than their hill dwarf cousins.  Skandar GoldTooth and
those that followed him as High Darmok remembered what happened at Del'Al-Mein
though, and refused to allow an internal squabble to threaten the grand purpose
of the dwarven race.  Whenever a major new metallurgical process was 
discovered, the Darmoks made sure all branches of the rapidly splintering dwarf
race became aware of it.  No dwarf worth his gold would fail to know at least
the basics of metal processing and weapon making.  And what were basics to a
dwarf, became the advanced skills other races aspired to.
