General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE TEACHINGS OF LOGRUS

Hysteria, paranoia, fear and hate were the hallmark of Logrus's motions.
But while the effects were rather clear to the outsider, Logrus's arguments
always made perfect sense as a way to turn around what he was secretly
trying to bring about.  As the Crime Lords began to hold sway, Logrus again 
offered a solution.

His teachings began to turn themselves to how to maintain a true and lasting
peace.  His logic stated the best bet was to tie oneself to a strong leader
able to keep less strong enemies away.  This leader would have lieutenants able
to maintain regional control in the leader's absence, and the lieutenants in
turn would need sergeants and so forth.  The entire hierarchy was protected
from any threat that its leader could defeat, and of course the leader had the
massed strength of the entire hierarchy beneath him at his command.  Thus a
commoner could ally himself to a simple gang leader, turning over a modest
amount of his produce for protection.  The gang leader in turn would ally
himself to a local garrison to defeat anything bigger then the gang could
handle.  The garrison allies itself to the army and the army follows a leader.

Implicit in these teachings though was the fact that the leaders at each step
must be stronger then those under them.  A weak leader would be unable to
defend against exterior enemies, and this threatened the entire hierarchy.
Similarly, a follower unable to provide their leader with increased capability
was worthless.  Thus while a leader has command over all beneath him, he is
responsible for culling the weak from the chain.  Strength though is not
just strength of arms, it is best defined as utility provided to the leader.
So a farmer providing food to the leader is offering a positive utility and
should be maintained.  The leader is responsible for insuring that all his
followers are providing a benefit, for a follower that is not, is making the
leader less capable.  And a less capable leader threatens the safety of all.
