# old sage
-1 -1
I've heard that there are books on spell knowledge.
I've heard that invoking strong prayers with a weak holy symbol can be detrimental.
Did you know that some components only grow at night?
Components are the key to being a great magic user.
It has been told that dissection is necessary for some components.
Rare components can be easy to find, if you look in the right places.
No mage should be without their spellbag and components.
The magic shop can provide you with basic magic tools.
The deity of judgment frowns upon useful spells casted on people opposite your beliefs.
Rumor has it that the deity of judgment rewards you for staying true!
It is told, that the smart player always reads the news.
The powers of magic can transform a mage into many things, including orcs, frogs, cockatrices, reindeers, komodos, minotaurs, lamias, ettins, chimeras, dragonnes, and even mighty tigers!
Undead are unaffected by limb-damaging spells.
Some of what I say is a bold-faced lie.
I have secretly replaced this mud's gods with Folger's Crystals.
Northern Haon-Dor is full of faerie-folk.
Keep your faction strong to facilitate piety regeneration.
The better your faction percent, the faster you will regenerate piety.
Fabulous rainbows can be viewed from the mountains near Amber.
Rainbow stones are often found in the vicinity of rainbows.
Rust monster droppings can cause fluorinide hydroxate to leech into the soil.
Comb the beaches for white silicon.
Rainbows can only be seen when it is raining.
Bad weather destroys white silicon.
A deposit of porous bedrock can be found near a tunnel in a canyon.
Brain coral can sometimes be found in the tidal basins of swamps.
There is a campsite in the gnomelands where they stockpile flour and other trade goods for delivery to Grimhaven.
Experienced fishermen use whale grease as chum.
Search Cimea during bad weather for cloud stones and cloud foam.
Find the rainbow bridge to gain access to Cimea.
Scout the forests during rain storms for prisms of condensation.
Time has stopped in Brazzed-Dum.
Liquid brimstone can be found naturally near the volcano.  Search for a deep hole.
Succubi have been known to carry liquid brimstone for their own nefarious purposes.
An invisible imp it is said roams the Lan'Quin selling the secrets of his invisibility.
There is talk about a gnomish tinker supposedly working to improve the Protection from Earth Spell.
Long ago a shipment of KA was lost near the gnomelands.
Illuminate is a spell taught to many gnome mage apprentices.
It is said that a gnomish inventor is studying the properties of cloud stones.
Gossip speaks of a hobbit farmer yielding a strange crop of carrots.
Drow mages it is said favor the Color Spray spell.
Elven maidens of the sea love to examine brain coral.
Drow refugees collect what others might consider useless and gross.
M'rahdon, the drow archmage finds creative uses for the Fear Spell.
There is a former drow priestess that is known to use the farlook spell to closely watch her back.
Aeris provides vaporous quartz for dust storm.
Midos supplies white-metal magnets for dispelling magic.
There is a strange mage living in the Bullywug swamp that moves granite blocks around from time to time.
Terros provides rounded pebbles suitable for casting pebble spray.
Pyros supplies claws of a mythical beast said to aid in the casting of flaming sword.
The fishermen of Amber have a special dislike for eels.
Magos knows how to obtain tails from air demons used in the sorcerer's globe spell.
A faerie named Puck knows how to detect invisibility.
Aquatic elves are thought to communicate telepathically across the great distances of the oceans.
It is said that a band of ice scouts found a cache of dry ice.
Hydros has a hobby of studying ice pipes, useful in the casting of arctic blast.
The fisherman of Brightmoon have had a problem with sharks.
Gnome tinkers have recently started studying the properties of dense brown pebbles.
A ranger of Grimhaven knows the secret of harvesting tears from chameleons.
A scholar deep within the Malithean Mines is said to be studying Vampire Bats.
Many have seen Rangui and his caretaker bird watching for falcons.
Some dark dwarves are said to use Promethean fire in their trades.
Aquatic elf warriors are said to have a taste for acorns, and the courage to look upon the sirens.
Mountain Valleys are rich with lodestones, miners are known to find all sorts.
Kunta, the aborigine chief, is said to be able to outrun a cheetah.
An orcish shaman near Logrus is said to seek scorned women for his sacrifices.
Alsafi, an ancient star gazer in Cimea is often seen looking at cloud foam.
The supply clerk in the lost Dwarven mines is rumored to be in need of lodestones, but has an abundance of porous bedrock.
There is some woman hanging around the swamp gathering its water for some strange reason.
Some stupid gnome fisherman has been harvesting guppies from salt water....go figure.
There is a witch in the LanQuin tripping on some sort of spores.
There is some moron in the Alpine Valley suckering people into buying unicorn piss.
I hear the southern area near pantathia has become infested with boa constrictors.
Beware the crying monk who's name begins with the letter 'D'.
