Armadillo:
----------                                                        
Excerpts from Animal Speak by Ted Andrews. 

Armadillo is Spanish for "little armored one". It is a burrowing animal 
whose armor is the shield it carries on its back. The armor is comprised 
of overlapping bony plates, covered with horns. The undersides are ordinary 
hide and are its most vulnerable area. The armadillo and those with it as 
a totem are most vulnerable when they expose their undersides, or inner 
workings. Armadillo teaches how to protect yourself and when to let your 
defenses down. 
When threatened, the armadillo will roll itself up into a ball, covering 
all its vulnerable areas. If an armadillo has strolled into your life, 
you should be asking yourself some questions. Are you not protecting 
yourself as you should? Are others around you needing protection? Are you 
being too sensitive and protecting yourself from attacks that are not there? 
Are you imagining attacks or being too sensitive to the energies of others? 
The armadillo can move fast if it needs to. It is also a good swimmer. It 
will swallow air and inflate its intestines until they are able to float.
Other times they will hold their breath and walk on the bottom of streams 
and other natural water sources. They can hold their breath for up to six 
minutes. This and their ability to dig reflects an ability of the armadillo 
to teach you how to move from one dimension to another. It can teach you 
how to move through all elements. This can be linked to specific forms of
mediumship, in which the individual is able to move consciously into new 
dimensions and stay protected all the while. It hints of an ability to
explore and walk the threads of life and death, and work with spirits of 
the dead. It also hints of the ability to explore the emotional sides
not often exposed, even though individuals with this totem may be reluctant 
to do so. If in the position, they can explore many emotional and mundane 
aspects of themselves. They often try to keep these more sensitive aspects 
of themselves protected and hidden. It will be important for those with this 
totem to learn when to expose these more subtle sides, and when to cover them 
up. This is a part of what armadillo teaches. 
