Bounty Hunters
 
There is a mob in the game, the bounty hunter AKA the repo mob. 
This mob is capable of hunting down specific items and specific players.  
Thus, bloody rampages might occur if they are misinterpreted.
 

WHO'S A HUNTER AND HOW TO IDENTIFY THEM.

Bounty hunters or repossession mobs can be identified a number of ways.
Heres an example:

A Dark Overlord starts following you.
A Dark Overlord says, "That's a pretty nice sword you have there, Stonecold."
A Dark Overlord says, "If you do not give the item to me, I will kill you and take it myself."
A Dark Overlord says, "I'm not kidding.  Hand over a small sword!"
A Dark Overlord says, "This is your *LAST* warning.  Give me a sword or DIE!"

Note: after *LAST* warning the mob will attack.

A Dark Overlord says, "A sword will be mine again!"
A Dark Overlord attacks you.

In the above text This type of hunter is called a passive one because it allows
you the *option* to get help ASAP or rent out if you can.

Hunters that are aggressive:

A Dark Overlord says, "You have been requested to log off by my employer."
A Dark Overlord says, "I suggest you comply."

A Dark Overlord says, "This is your *LAST* warning."

In the above text is an example of a hunter sent by the gods to kill a player
character that has broken a rule that has disrupted the enjoyment of the game
for other players.  This mob can _only_ be sent out by a 57+ god and can be
set non-killable so each time this player enters the mud this mob will keep
killing the PC until a crash or until the god in question revokes the death
warrant. 

This is done for two reasons at present. 

1. The god can send a hunter and resume his or her work without dealing with
   the PC. 
2. Instead of site banning the PC, folks from the PC's location can still
   enjoy the game.

As staff members here we reserve the right to be just as human as you.
Treat everyone with respect.

WHY ARE BOUNTY HUNTERS SENT OUT?  

There are a number of reasons these mobs are sent out.  At times there are
changes to objects in The World.  If no staff members are present in the
game these mobs do the work for them.

Keep in mind Hunters or Repo mob can be any mob in The World hand picked by
the staff member of this mud. 

Alternatively, Repo mobs will sometimes occur naturally in order to facilitate
item turnover.  That is, if an item is maxed, a repo mob is sometimes created
automatically to track down the item and "put it back into circulation".
At one point, this was used to keep power-items out of the hands of newbies,
but this feature is presently in just to add a certain dynamic to the game.

WHY SEND OUT HUNTERS IF THEY DON'T LOAD WITH THE ITEM BEING REPOSSESSED?

This is the most commonly asked question. Sometimes we need to switch out
items in the game.  If the PC in possession of the item has gone up
considerably in levels or is in a large group, it is important that the
bounty hunters be able to retrieve the item(s) that have become obsolete. 
