The Brotherhood of Galek has been the political/religious organization
dedicated to maintaining and advancing the teachings of the prophet Galek
since its inception seven centuries ago.  Its center of teachings are in
and around the town of Brightmoon, although it maintains minor missions
and outposts throughout the land.

The chief tenets of the Brotherhood center around personal responsibility and
the innate worth of the individual.  Their loftiest goals involve eliminating
restrictions on personal freedoms.  Power is typically shared equally for the
benefit of all.  Cooperation in the face of adversity is their greatest virtue.

The Brotherhood is led by the Council of Three, ostensibly equal in rank and
power, latter day reformations have resulted in a hierarchy of power amongst
the Councillors that is rarely acknowledged except in military matters. Time
and circumstances have caused portions of Galek's original teachings to have
been ignored or applied in sometimes questionable manners by past Councillors
making some question the purity of their leadership.

The Guardians of the Steps represents the military arm of the Brotherhood and
consists of a fiercely disciplined and organized paramilitary organization.
There is little real rank amongst the paladin Guardians each treating the
other as an equal.  Although for simplicity and strategic reasons, Guardians
will typically recognize a commander.

Brightmoon serves as the center of operations for the Brotherhood.  Brightmoon
was founded during the first century as a place of defense and refuge for
the Galekians.  Various circumstances, including the widely held belief that
the remains of the prophet Galek are interned nearby, since its founding have
turned it into a holy city for the Brotherhood.

The Brotherhood is known to have constructed a large cathedral in the free
city of Grimhaven.  The Cathedral serves as both bastion for the Galek forces
operating in the Grimhaven vicinity as well as a convenient place to 
disseminate propaganda.  Other smaller outposts are constructed and
maintained as local politics permits.

Due to various historical actions, the Brotherhood has been able to make
certain allegiances amongst the non-civilized societies.  Tytan races
(including cyclops, trolls and minotaurs) have a long standing association
with the Brotherhood and typically fight alongside the paladin Guardians.
Certain other races may assist the Brotherhood for various selfish reasons.

See Also: -
Related Topics: FACTIONS
