Caravans are sent back and forth between the various parts of civilization
to conduct trade between neighboring allies.  They carry wealth in the form
of trade goods from one city to another.  As they tend to have abundant
wealth, they are often the targets of thieves and marauders.

Each faction supports their own caravans and trade routes.  The faction
leadership is able to determine what cities their faction will trade with,
how often caravans will be sent, how much wealth they will carry, and how
much defense (in the form of mercenaries) they will provide the caravan.

Caravans will deplete the wealth of their source city as they are created.
A caravan that successfully reaches its destination will earn a profit on
the number of wares that successfully reach market.  In addition, the
destination city also benefits from the caravan when it arrives due to the
trade goods now being for sale.

Caravans move at a fairly slow pace and may require many hours to cross
the vast distances between the cities and the towns.  Because of this, and
the fact that they might hold large amounts of treasure, unscrupulous forces
have been known to attack caravans in search of wealth.  The larger the booty
within the caravan, the more likely it will be a target.  To counteract this,
most faction leaders demand the caravan masters hire mercenaries to act as
caravan guards for the duration of the voyage.  While this does cut into the
profit ratio, it also raises the likelihood that the caravan will arrive safe
and sound.

Military forces have also been known to assault caravans of enemy cities in
order to damage the economics of opposition cities and towns.  A faction
unable to get its caravans successfully to their destinations will soon run
out of talens and be unable to pay for that faction's luxuries.

Faction leaders should pay close attention to their caravans, and insure they
have adequate defenses.  Similarly, they should urge their own members to
provide support to friendly caravans, and to impede the caravans of the enemy.

---------------------
Adjusting caravan properties:

Wealth carried:
  adjust caravan wealth <amount>
      Faction wealth decreased by <amount> per caravan sent and turned into
      trade goods.
Mercenaries hired:
  adjust caravan defense <amount>
      Each caravan will use <amount> of faction wealth to hire mercenaries.
      The larger the <amount> spent, the better the mercenaries will be.
Destinations:
  adjust caravan destination <city>
      Only certain cities are allowed for each faction.  Those that are
      allowed can be enabled or disabled depending on the current politics.
      When a caravan forms, it selects a random destination from all cities
      currently enabled.  Having no destination cities enabled will prevent
      caravans from forming automatically.
Interval:
  adjust caravan interval <time>
      <time> is the number of mud ticks (30 mud minutes) between caravan
      formations.  You can set <time> to -1 to prevent caravans from forming
      automatically.

See Also: ADJUST
Related Topics: FACTIONS
