<h> help for setting characteristics :

Characteristics are a measure of how good a given character is in a certain
quality.  The higher the number, the better that characteristic is.

You may continue increasing characteristics until you max it, or you run out of
free points.  To gain more free points, you must lower some other
characteristic.  Raising and lowering of characteristics is done by typing:
   SYNTAX: +{amount}<characteristic>
   SYNTAX: -{amount}<characteristic>
Where <characteristic> is the letter of the characteristic you wish to change,
and {amount} is a number representing how much to raise or lower the
<characteristic>.

For example, +3s will raise strength by 3 points.  {amount}, if not specified,
will default to 1.  Characteristics are limited to the range -25 to +25.  To
simplify character design, you may take free points negative, however, you
will not be able to proceed onward until free points are non-negative.

Be aware that characteristics come in three flavors: chosen, natural and
current.  What you are setting here at character generation are your
"chosen stats".  The natural stats are simply the chosen stats adjusted
for racial modifiers.  For example, if an elf chooses to set 0 for his
brawn, and an ogre sets 0 for her brawn, the ogre will wind up with a higher
"natural brawn" due to the racial modifier on brawn that an ogre receives.
Current stats contain the effects of any transient change in the stat the
character may have in effect.  This includes magical effects, items worn,
age modifiers, and the like.

That is:
Chosen  : The values you choose here at character generation
Natural : Static values based on race, age, home territory, etc.
Current : Natural + Chosen + transients (eq, spells, etc).

You are free to adjust your characteristics to whatever configuration you
desire, but once you begin play, there is no way to change your chosen
characteristics at a later point in time.  New players are encouraged to set
some characteristics and try them out, you will undoubtedly want to experiment
with some numbers before finally committing yourself to any one setup.

There is no "perfect" setup for characteristics.  This is largely an exercise
in personal preference and making acceptable tradeoffs.  On a final note, it
is not advisable to set as many characteristics to max as possible; you will
find that a near maxed characteristic is virtually identical to the maxed
quantities, while the sacrificed characteristics vary radically at the low
numbers (ie., diminishing returns).   That is, it may not be advantageous to
max a stat in detriment of other stats, you may suffer more then you benefit.
Still, realize that the stat range has grown a lot, so small modifications will
probably not yield a significant difference, though this is not an absolute
rule.
