Clerics are the mouthpieces of the deities upon The World acting as
conduits
for the will of and power of the deity they follow.  Clerics commune directly
with their deity through the use of prayers and holy symbols, and hence a
strict adherence to the principles and dogma of their deity is necessary.

There are a number of career paths for a cleric and early choices may
affect later ones.  A cleric can choose to be a fighting cleric or may
choose a path that will optimize his or her praying ability.  However,
clerics are able to both pray and fight and young clerics can learn either
theology or combat.  Clerics that want both combat and theology will
naturally be able to learn fewer prayers since they will use their time
practicing fighting techniques and will not learn as much technical
prayer.   This choice will be set out early in the clerics life when he or
she is practicing combat but will show up later when they are specializing
in various praying disciplines.

Clerical prayers come in many varieties, although they are best known for their
healing abilities or for the afflictions they can generate.  Less well known
but much more impressive is the ability to channel the power of their deity
directly upon The World causing destruction on a grand scale.

It should be noted that clerics do not use "magic" per se, but instead ask
their deity to answer their prayers and cause a desired effect.  As such, they
do not use mana, but instead, each successive use of a prayer lowers their
standing in the eyes of their deity.

Clerics have the following basic disciplines:
Combat, Theology, Clerical Abilities, Adventuring, Blunt Specialization,
Faith

Clerics have the following specialized prayer disciplines:
Cures, Afflictions, Wrath of the Deities, Hand of the Deities, 
Aegis of the Deities

Before practicing in an advanced/specialized discipline, clerics must
learn the cleric abilities discipline fully and have a combined learning
in theology and/or combat of 100.

See also: PRACTICE, HOLY SYMBOLS, HOSPITAL, PIETY, DEITIES
Related Topics: CLASSES, PREREQS, DISCIPLINE
