Components come in three varieties: gestural, verbal and material.
Any spell will require some combination of the above in order to be
properly cast.  A spell not properly prepared for (by ignoring some or all
of the components) is a wasted spell, and because the caster has already 
drawn forth the mana to cast said spell, the mana is generally lost as well.

VERBAL: The verbal component of a spell is the mantra, cantrip or incantation
that must be spoken in order to carry off a spell.  Very advanced magicians
often learn to sub-vocalize their spells, and can often disregard the verbal
component altogether.

GESTURAL: Gestural components encompass everything from hand-motions to
arm waving and also include any body motions or jumping about required.
Since a certain nimbleness is required to carry off spells, mages generally
prefer loose fitting clothing lest their gestural spells be screwed up.
Gestural spells are always impeded by broken or heavily damaged limbs and
items held often prevent the complicated hand-motions required.  Very advanced
wizards can sometimes escape the limitations of the gestural component as well.

MATERIAL: The material component of a spell is any physical object that is
needed to bring the spell about.  Material components facilitate a spell's
completion, but are generally consumed wholly or partially in the casting of
the spell and so must be replenished.  Only the very simplest of spells will
need no material component.  Material components must be held by the caster
at the time of casting, although wizards have discovered ways to allow
spells to be successfully completed with components in the secondary hand or
even in special spell bags.

---------------------------------------------------------------
In game terms, the verbal and gestural components of a spell are handled
automatically.  If you are unable to speak or move, your spells will
fail.  Anything that might impede speaking or moving (gags, heavy clothing,
etc.) will cause a chance of that component (and hence the spell) from
failing.  Material components must be maintained by the adventuring spell
caster both in terms of supply as well as in placement on the body.
Mages are encouraged to keep their eyes out for the components they might
need for the various spells at their command.

The individual help files on the spells detail which components are
necessary for a given spell as well as what the material component
might be.

See Also: WIZARDRY
Related Topics: SPELL INFO
