The craps table is located in the casino.
Standard Vegas rules for craps are used.

BETTING:
   syntax:  bet <come | crap> <bet amount>
Come implies that you believe the roller will win; crap implies you feel
the roller will fail.  The first bet made MUST be a come bet and the person
making such a bet is given the dice by the craps man.

ROLLING:
  syntax:  hold dice
  syntax:  throw dice
Only the roller needs do this and only after the craps man has closed the
betting may the roller start throwing the dice.  The dice are standard six
sided die.  All at the table will see the result of the craps roll.  You only
need hold the dice the first time you are given them, after that, just type
THROW DICE each time you want to make a new throw.

CRAPS RULES:
Craps is played with 2 standard, fair dice.  After all bets have been placed,
the roller rolls the dice for the point roll (point roll = first roll).
The roller wins automatically if the two die total either 7 or 11 on the
point roll.  The roller loses automatically if they come up "snake eyes"
(both 1s:total 2), "box cars" (both 6s: total 12), or totalling 3. Any
other result yields what the point number for the game will be.  That is,
if the dice are a 4 and a 1 then the "point is 5" (4+1 = 5).

Assuming that the game is not won or lost on the point roll then the game
continues.  The goal of the roller now is to hit their "point" again before
they roll a 7.  That is, if the point is 5 then the roller is hoping to get
(2 3) (3 2) (4 1) or a (1 4)  before they roll something totalling 7 i.e.
(6 1) (1 6) (2 5) (5 2) (3 4) or a (4 3).  Any roll that isn't either the point
roll (a win) or a 7 (a loss) does nothing and the roller continues rolling
until they either hit their point or crap out with a 7 roll.

If the roller makes their point or wins on the point-roll, all come bets pay
1:1.  If the roller craps out all crap bets pay 1:1.

ADVANCED RULES:  (one-roll betting)
It is also possible to bet on a certain result being the outcome of the VERY
NEXT roll.  Doing so is done by making a one-roll bet.  Typing BET ONEROLL will
display options and odds.  All one-roll bets are paid out as soon as the roll
is made and last only 1 roll.
  syntax: bet <one roll field> <bet amount>

valid one roll fields:
Two   : Bet on a one roll snake eyes (2).           Pays 30 to 1.
Three : Bet on a one roll acey deucy (3).           Pays 15 to 1.
Eleven: Bet on a one roll eleven (11).              Pays 15 to 1.
Twelve: Bet on a one roll box-cars (12).            Pay 30 to 1.
Craps : Bet on a one roll craps roll (2, 3, or 12). Pays 7 to 1.
Seven : Bet on a one roll seven roll.               Pays 4 to 1.
Horn  : Bet on a one roll horn bet. Type help horn for help on the horn bet.
Field : Bet on a one roll field bet. Type help field for help on this bet.

e.g.  doing BET ELEVEN 100 would place a 100 coin bet that the very next roll
would be an 11 roll (6 5) (5 6).  If it is, you would win 1500 coins, if not, 
you lose your 100 coins. 

See Also: BET, HORN, FIELD
Related Topics: CASINO
