The Cult of Logrus has roots tracing back nearly a millennium and takes direct
credit for pulling civilization up out of anarchy and setting them back on
the path to improvement.  The Cult maintains the city of Logrus as its fortress
of power and all leaders of the Cult have made it their home

The majority of its beliefs are outlined in a book called The Way of the
Logrus, penned originally by the prophet and first leader of the Cult, Logrus.
The Way preaches self-reliance, personal responsibility and strength through
domination.  It is often seen as tyrannical due to its insistence that respect
and position must be continually earned and demonstrated.

At the core of The Way is the establishment of a strict and disciplined
hierarchy of power.  Each member of the hierarchy lends benefit to those
leaders above them and receives benefit from members beneath them.  The beauty
of this system is that each subsequent leadership level brings with it
an exponential increase in benefit and this benefit can be used to protect
and improve The Way of life of all members.

Much of The Way is directed toward how this hierarchy should behave.  Examples
of how discipline should be maintained, examples of appropriate punishments
for failed followers and parables of how The Way has improved the lot of life
for all its members permeate the writings.  The relationship between leader
and follower is a well defined one within the Cult.  The leader is responsible
for insuring all followers are providing a positive benefit and for protecting
them from evil-doers.  The follower is responsible for providing the leader
with as much benefit as possible to make them as capable as possible in
promoting The Way.

The Cult is led by a Grand Master who typically has 2-3 sub lieutenants called
Lesser Masters.  The true power of the faction lies in the Grand Master, 
although responsibility for day to day mundanities also accrues to this leader.
Since the time of the Schism, the religious aspects of interpreting The Way
has resided in The Logrus Master.  Although The Logrus Master holds no real
power, he and his followers are able to influence the Grand Masters by means
of careful interpretation of the dogma.

The Town of Logrus forms the home for the Cult.  Various garrisons for Cult
guards units, Dragoons and Corsairs, are scattered about, the largest being in
the free city of Grimhaven.  Other outposts are maintained as needed to defend
followers of The Way or to prevent The World from slipping into the hands of
the worshipers of anarchy.

The Cult has historical alliances with certain non-civilized races,
including orcs, goblins and other sub-humans.  While not true believers in
The Way, they often serve the Cult in order to benefit their own internal
hierarchies.

See Also: -
Related Topics: FACTIONS
