Disciplines represent the sum total body of knowledge in a given area
of study.  This knowledge is encapsulated in a series of trainers spread
through The World who may be willing to train worthy adventurers.

Disciplines are generally divided into basic, utility, weapons and
advanced/specialization skill/spell disciplines.  The basic disciplines
are Combat, Lore, Theology and a <class> abilities discipline (one for
each class).  These disciplines are learned first and taught by trainers 
in and around the newbie and low/mid level areas of The World.  The
utility discipline are Adventuring, Wizardry and Faith and are generally 
learned from the players guildmasters naturally over time.  Weapon skills
are taught after combat and taught by trainers in The World but do not
have <class> abilities as a prereq.  Last, the advanced spell/skill
disciplines require an adventurer to first complete his basic training
(Combat, Lore, Theology, or a combination) and class discipline before 
a trainer will teach you a deeper knowledge in a given specialty.

Within each discipline, there are smaller sub-areas of knowledge that are
generally referred to as skills, spells or prayers.  For example, one
discipline is water-magic representing advanced learning in water magic as
taught and learned by the World's master water mages.  As a person learns
more about water-magic, they would gradually have access to various
advanced spells not available to those who have not specialized in water
magic. In addition, the more one knew about water-magic, the better their
ability in various basic water spells could become.  Advanced learning
can both increase the power of basic skills/spells associated with that
advanced disciplines and provide new skills/spells to the adventurer.

Obviously, this advanced learning is not accessible to the neophyte as
they are beyond their abilities.  Advanced trainers assume a base
knowledge that not everyone may have and will not spend their time
teaching the unprepared or unqualified.  For example, water-magic assumes
the student has an understanding of all the basic magical principles and
hence, non magicians and beginning mages would be unable to train in it at
all.  Likewise, hand-to-hand combat assumes a knowledge about basic
fighting techniques.

Various trainers around The World offer training in a variety of disciplines.
The best trainers tend to be a bit reclusive though.  You must also possess
practice sessions to train with them.  After a trainer has given you his
knowledge, it will be up to you to learn the skill taught to you.

Note that practices are only one aspect of learning.  Almost all skill
learning is a combination of training at a trainer and improvement by
using the skill.

See Also: PRACTICE, GAIN, PREREQS
Related Topics: CLASSES, LEARNING
