Dwarves are the undisputed masters below a depth of six feet.  They tend
to be fiercely individualistic and proud to the point of arrogance.
With most probability, dwarves are the eldest race in The World save for
the elves who remind them of this fact whenever a dwarf starts spouting off
about their rich traditions dating back millennium.  Dwarven knowledge of
metallurgy is unsurpassed.

Dwarven males range from 41 to 49 inches and 199 to 235 pounds.
Dwarven females range from 39 to 47 in. and 164 to 200 lbs.
Their diminutive size gives them a fair amount of problems in finding
armor to fit.  Interestingly, dwarves are regarded as the best armorers
in the land yet they rarely make platemail that will fit themselves as
there "just aren't enough dwarves to make it profitable."

Dwarves are characterized by rugged individualism.  Their physical constitution
is unparalleled by any race.  Likewise their strength and brawn rarely dips
below the human norm.  Dwarves, due to their hardy, brawny build,
tend not to be as dextrous, agile, or as fast as humans.  Dwarven culture
prefers the physical arts over the mental ones, hence their intellect is
rarely much higher than the human norm.  However, since dwarves believe
that things must be practiced in order to do it right, they have very
high wisdom.  They also show good concentration when they work.  Maybe
that is why the armor they make is so good.  They don't go by any
books, but spend many years of hard work and concentration to hone
their skills.  Being rather reclusive, they care very little for their
looks, thus having below average charisma.  They tend to be more
perceptive then humans, needing it due to their lives in dark caves to go 
hand and hand with their infravision.  Dwarves are also somewhat favored by
fate, which has allowed to be around for such a long time and have a long
history only rivaled by elves.

Their strength of character gives them a strong tolerance to
alcohol and has the added effect of making them immune to most toxins.
Their life underground has cultivated their infravision capabilities.
Being short of stature means they have smaller reserves of vitality, but
their natural vigor lets them recooperate both vitality and health it at
increased rates. Lack of magical prowess dampens their recooperation of
mana however.  However, it is this lack of magical prowess which lends
some resistance to being charmed or from some energy spells.

As dwarves small size but large mass makes them fairly dense, they have a
natural aversion to water.  Dwarves are incapable of swimming as they can't
float and few dwarves will willing agree to travel by boat.  They dislike
large open areas unless it is a large cave and flying is something that would
most likely cause a dwarf to pass out from fear.

See Also: INFRAVISION, HUMANS, OGRES, ELVES, GNOMES, HOBBITS
Related Topics: RACES
