Elves are perhaps the oldest race on the face of The World.  They claim
kinship with the lost Faerie race and there are no races with histories
older than theirs to dispute this claim.  Numerous sub-races of elves
exist - everything from drow (dark elves), hill, forest or wood to the
sea-elves that inhabit the deep.  For the most part, when one speaks of
"elves" in general, it is the fully civilized and city-dwelling elf that
is meant.  The elves that live in small enclaves often differ (sometimes
remarkably) from their cousins living with the humans.

Elven males range from 47 to 57 inches and 93 to 120 pounds.
Elven females range from 45 to 55 inches and 73 to 100 lbs.
Elves are slightly shorter and much leaner than humans.  The slight size
differential means that they occasionally have trouble wearing human-designed
clothing.  However their build is such that they can usually make use of
armor meant for the smaller races if that is the case. 

One of the elves' biggest gift is their intelligence which is due to their
vast history.  They are easily able to exceed the human maximum and even
the dumbest elf can rival a humans.  However, their wisdom is about the 
same as humans (they rely more on books then real life experiences).  They
do have more focus then humans though, being taught to concentrate on
difficult tasks from small.  But these gifts are offset by their
physical frailty - strength, brawn, and constitutions rarely rise above
average.  Elves display both grace and beauty, their clumsiest member is
just below the human norm and they also have equitable dexterity and
speed to go along with this agility.  Their amazing beauty lends them high
charisma.  Fate tends not to really play a role on elves.  They sometimes
are favored and sometimes have very difficult times.  Also, elves tend to
be slightly less perceptive then humans.

It is said that elves faerie heritage has given them a strong resistance to
the magical forces.  It is true that elves are able to ignore the effects of
paralysis and they have a strong resistance to charm.  If nothing else this
substantiates the claim to being distant faerie-folk.  Additionally, their
senses are supposed to be much more acute than ordinary humans or any other
race for that matter.  While they do not possess infravision per se, their
eyesight allows them to see things at a much further distance than normal.
Elven bodies are exceptionally streamlined and graceful.  This gives them
a vitality rivaled only by the massive ogres at the cost that health is
recooperated somewhat slowly.  Elves diminished size gives them inherent
quietness and camouflage, which is increased even further in natural 
surroundings beyond the dwellings of civilization.

Lastly, Elves most distinguishing feature is their pointed ears.  However,
it is considered ill-manners to make mention of this fact in elven society.
Apparently, their misshapen ears are considered some sort of affliction and
many first time tourists have gotten a fierce tongue-lashing for taking
notice of this.

See Also: HUMANS, DWARVES, OGRES, HOBBITS, GNOMES
Related Topics: RACES
