If something totally bizarre occurs and you lose exp (death, etc) as a result
of it, you MUST talk to a 58+ god.  Bizarre occurrences can be broken into two
categories: random flukes and bona-fide bugs.  Random flukes are those
situations caused by a normal (if rare) combination of events.  Bugs are
situations that are 1.) unexpected and generally a side-effect to some new
code, 2.) repeatable at will (this is key) and 3.) do not perform as 
planned/designed by the coder.  We tend to be a lot more stringent about
reimbursing experience points lost than about items simply because to do
otherwise would be to invalidate the hard work that was involved in designing
the code/rules of the game.

To be reimbursed exp, you must describe the situation that occurred.  In
addition, describe how what happened was not a valid outcome.  "bugbears
never killed me before", "I've never seen trolls in that room before" and
the like don't cut it.  "I had nokill on and typed bodyslam Brutius and it let
me making all the guards attack me" is a valid bug since nokill is designed
to prevent that attack.  Lastly, bugs MUST be repeatable.  That is,
your description of how the event occurred must be such that the immortal can
cause the same result that happened originally to happen again.  It's only
a bug if we can fix it, and to do that, we have to know how it works.

Example 1:  (player-file corruption)
Mysteriously you log in one day and the game doesn't recognize your player's
name.  Chances are your file has become corrupted.  Complete reimbursement
should be expected but it may require a high level god to carry this out.
Auto-wiped characters who are deleted for failure to log in at all within a
set amount of time are a gray area and will be handled on a case by case basis.

Example 2:  (auto-rent)
Your link has lagged all day and during a long stretch, you give up and break
link.  Whatever happens to you after this point is your responsibility.  You
will eventually be rented after being in game for and inactive, but
during that time should you die (starvation, hating mob catching up to you
while you are away, etc.) you're basically at the mercy of whatever immortal
hears your plea.  Breaking link is NOT a recommended way of leaving the game.
We have installed a few safeguards for character safety, but if all those
fail, you're on your own.  Rent out when finished playing for the night, we
guarantee the safety of that (provided you can afford rent of course).

See Also: LOSING LINK
Related Topics: RULES
