One of the principles that <h> is dedicated to is "to promote
exploration and discovery".  As such, The World of <h> has been
carefully crafted to make this possible and the rules that are enforced
are such that exploration is as enjoyable as can be.

General hints:
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.) Turn brief mode off when in new areas.  The difference between a
quick death and a fun adventure could be in the description of a room.

Along the same lines...
2.) Make sure you read the description of rooms as there are often clues
hidden within them.

3.) Make a map.  The World is generally logical and few "mapper's nightmares"
are present.  Going north then south should take you back to where you
started and no teleport mazes are present.  Nevertheless, The World is
quite big and it is very easy to get lost.

4.) Examine everything!  Just because mapping is simple doesn't mean we
didn't get sneaky and hide a secret door or two around.  And no secret
door exists that can't be found by just being observant and looking for
something a little out of the ordinary.

5.) Experiment and keep your ears open.  <h> has thousands of items
not all of which are actually useful.  And even in the "good stuff", tradeoffs
have been made in terms of quality versus power versus price.

6.) Know your game style.  Items and armor that damage quickly but have
short repairs are great if you play in short sessions, but not if you like
to marathon-mud.

7.) Recognize the "better part of valor".  While on many muds recall scrolls
have become the norm, they are virtually unavailable on <h>.  If you
get yourself in over your head, its going to take some skill and speed to
extricate yourself safely.  "He that fights and runs away..."

8.) Watch the clock.  One of the biggest complaints is that it takes
so long to get around The World, and the lack of recall scrolls also
means there is no way to make a graceful exit if real-world pressures
require you to leave the mud quickly.  If you know you have to leave,
stick close to a reception.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Realize that since we have gone to a good deal of trouble to facilitate
exploration, that a player that attempts to ruin exploration for others
will be sanctioned by the game maintainers.  Realize that shouting "where
is the Aerie?", "how do i get out of the labyrinth?" or something equally
as silly will greatly displease the gods as well as others who are
interested in discovering the answer for themselves.

See Also: SHOUT (etiquette)
Related Topics: GENERAL INFO
