Frog:
-----
Excerpts from Animal Speak by Ted Andrews.

Frogs have an ancient mythology about them.  Being amphibians with links to the
water and the land, they are often associated with the magic of both elements.
This also links them to the lore of fairies and elves.  Many shamanic societies
- especially North and South American - link the frog with rain and control of
the weather.  Its voice is said to call forth the rains.
Because of its connection to water, it is also linked to lunar energies (the
moon moves the tides of waters upon the planet) and those goddesses associated
with the moon.  The frog was an animal attributed to the Egyptian goddess Herit
(Het Heru), who assisted Isis (Auset) in her ritual for resurrecting Osiris
(Ausar).
Even as adults, frogs remain semi-aquatic.  They live in damp areas.  They need
water and all that is associated with it symbolically or otherwise.  If frog
has hopped into your life, you may need to get in touch with the water element.
It may reflect that there are new rains coming or that you need to call some
new rains forth.  Maybe old waters are becoming dirty and stagnant.  Frog can
teach you how to clean them up.
Emotions are often associated with water.  Individuals with frog totems are
very sensitive to the emotional states of others, and seem to know
instinctively how to act and what to say.  They know how to be sincerely
sympathetic.
Frog holds the knowledge of weather and how to control it.  Frog medicine can
bring rains for every purpose - to cleanse, to heal, to help things grow, to
flood, to stir.  Its energies can be used to bring light showers or downpours
for most any purpose.  The call of the frog is the call of the waters.  The
spring and summer are the times when frog's voice is strongest.  These are its
power times.  Its call serves a variety of functions.  It calls mates to it.
It also serves as a release call for non-receptive females.  It defines its
territory and it warns of predators.  The frog is a totem of metamorphosis.  It
is a symbol of coming into one's own creative power.  It changes from an egg,
to a polliwog, to a frog.  Even after it becomes a frog, it lives close to and
spends much time in the water.  It always has contact with the creative force
out of which it came.  Usually frog people have strong ties to their own
mothers.
