Gin is a two person card game (yes, you'll have to find a partner) played
with a standard deck of 52 cards (4 suits (ether, water, earth, fire) of
13 cards (ace, 2 - 10, jack, queen, king) each.)  

Rules of the game:
One player deals the cards (usually the loser of the last hand).  Dealer gets
10 cards, opponent gets 11 (but opens the game by discarding not picking from
the deck).  The object of the game is to get all your cards into groupings.
Groupings are 3 (or more) cards that are either BOOKS (cards of the same
number, eg. the two of ether, the two of fire and the two of earth make a book)
or a STRAIGHT (numerically adjacent cards of the same suit, eg. the five of
water, the six of water, and the seven of water make a straight 5-7 of water.)
In order to win, you must have your cards in either:
          Two groups of 3 and a group of 4, or
          Two groups of 5 (obviously both groups would have to be straights)

It does not matter what the groups are.  They could all be books, all be 
straights or be some combination of them.  One note before leaving the topic:
standard gin rules dictate that the ace of a suit is always low.  Therefore,
queen, king, ace is NOT a valid straight.

The game play:
The person who is dealt to goes first (i.e. the person who is dealt 11 cards).
They must discard one card.  Once they discard, it is the dealer's turn and 
the dealer may either pick up the top card on the pile (other person's discard)
or pick a new card from the deck.  Once the dealer picks, they must then discard
one of their 11 cards.  Play alternates until one person wins.

Winning the game:
You can win the game in one of two ways, ginning or knocking.  GINNING is where
you have set up 10 of your cards into groups, you then discard the extra and
declare gin.  eg. a book of 3, a straight of 3, a book of 4, and a leftover
8 of water is 11 cards.  You could discard the 8 and declare a gin hand.
KNOCKING is where you have at least two groups of 3 cards AND the total point
value of the rest of your cards is less than 10.  Point value of the ungrouped
cards is the sum of their face values with face cards (jack,queen,king) being
10.  eq. ungrouped 3,7,and king is 3+7+10 = 20 points.  The winner of a knock
is the person with the least number of points in their hand, of course, since
you have to have less than 10 to knock, it is usually the knocker.

Scoring:
In a gin game:
               25 + number of leftover points in opponents hand
In a knock game:
              difference in leftover points
              +10 points if person who won is NOT person who knocked
A standard game is to 100 points.

Game commands from within <h>-environment:
  There are 11 'slots' for cards.  All card handling is done by slot number.
Newly drawn cards go into slot-11.  Cards are always shuffled toward higher
number so swapping a card into slot-4 moves the old slot-4 card to slot-5,
the old slot-5 card to slot-6, etc.
  To play the game, both players must be seated at the gin table.  Standing
up terminates the game. 

PEEK   
  Looks at the cards in your hand. 

LOOK AT PILE
  Looks at what the last discarded card was

LOOK AT TABLE
  Displays last discard AND the current score.

PUT (old card slot#) (new card slot#) 
  Moves a card from old slot# into the new slot# and resorts all the other 
cards down 1 slot.

PICK PILE
  Picks up the last card played (other person's discard)

PICK DECK
  Picks a new card from the deck of cards.

PLAY (slot#)
  Discards the card in slot#

PLAY GIN (slot#)
  Used to EITHER knock or to gin.  Will score by gin or knock rules accordingly
or give an error message if used at a time when ginning or knocking is not
possible for that player.  Scoring is automatic.

See Also: -
Related Topics: CASINO
