Gnomes are probably related to dwarves as they are remarkably similar.  In
fact, the main differences are chiefly cultural.  As a race, they have
turned away from the individualism that characterizes their dwarven relatives
and live in giant communes called warrens that house an entire tribe.  They
prefer hilly terrain for making their warrens and a typical tribe may number
as many as one to two hundred gnomes.

Gnome males range from 34 to 41 inches and 77 to 92 pounds.
Gnome females range from 31 to 38 inches and 73 to 88 lbs.
Of diminutive stature, gnomes are rarely able to wear armor designed for
humans and must resort to the smaller pieces of equipment that they can
find or make for themselves.

Communal living has allowed gnome lore to be kept and passed from the elders
to the young in a manner that is unsurpassed in the civilized realms.  Even
the lowest Gnome's intellect and wisdom rivals the smartest humans.  In
fact, very few races, if any, can match a gnome's focus, intellect, or
wisdom.  However, such mental development comes with a very heavy price.
Due to their severe lack of physical activity, they are extremely weak,
not very brawny, lack any significant constitution, and extremely
undextrous and clumsy.  They also are rather slow in movement.  Gnomes,
however, are more perceptive and charismatic then humans.  For various
historical reasons, fate pays little heed to gnomes, despite gnome
culture's close associations with the deities.  As a result, their karma
suffers.

Like dwarves, their shortness of stature gives them lower reserves of vitality.
Additionally, their bodies recooperate lost health more slowly.  On the other
hand, Gnome mental abilities and capabilities for regenerating lost mana is
unsurpassed.

Gnomes have maintained their infravision due to their underground lifestyle
and have developed immunity to energy.  This last is something of a mystery
but it is something that gnomes are quite proud but refuse to speak of to
outsiders.

See Also: INFRAVISION, HUMANS, ELVES, OGRES, DWARVES, HOBBITS
Related Topics: RACES
