Gods are the implementors and problem handlers of the mud.  If something
drastic happens, they are the people who you will want to talk to about
it. 
The current gods on-line will show up by doing WHO -G.  

Gods are much more responsive to polite tells, than incessant shouts for 
immediate attention. Shouts tend to annoy the gods and chances are you will 
be ignored.

Should there be no available god to talk to, you may leave a message that
will be immediately visible for all gods when they check in again:
http://www.sneezymud.com/Contact_Us.html

Gods are players who have spent enough time on the mud to become level 50
and began volunteering their time as builders or other helpful functions
and at that point were asked if they wanted to be a part of the development
of the mud.  We do not get paid, we are here because we want to be.  Please
treat us as you want us to treat you.

Due to the nature and information that gods have available to them, they
are restricted from maintaining close relations with the "mortal realm"
(i.e. non gods).

Things gods WILL DO:
* Fix code-related problems that arise, including:
    file loss  (auto-wipe does not count)
    improper or buggy code  (defined at discretion of coder/god)
    failure of OUR machine.  (crash/reboot)
* Maintain enjoyability of game for users.  (purging of problem players/sites)
* Listen to and hash out ideas, gripes, complaints.  HELP BUG, HELP IDEA
* Role-play NPCs according to the NPC's character.
* Run quests on occasion.  HELP QUEST

Things gods are NOT PERMITTED TO DO:
* Directly interfere in mortal realm, including:
    casting spells on mobs or players
    aiding/harming mobs or players  (assuming no rule was broken)
    moving items, players or mobs around The World directly.
    providing information not generally available to players
* Do reimburses for non-code related problems including link-problems.
* Recover corpses from deaths or get you out of a situation to avoid death.

The above is taken to be a general outline.  The specifics are known to the
gods, but please don't ask them to do something that they are not permitted
to do.

Finally, realize that gods (especially the higher level ones) have limits on
their time and while connected are frequently involved in handling other 
complaints, checking bugs or coding fixes and new things in another window.
Please be patient if you seek their help.  

See Also: REIMBURSEMENT, QUEST, BUG, IDEA
Related Topics: RULES
