Hearts is a four person card game (yes, you'll have to find opponents) played
with a standard deck of 52 cards (4 suits (ether, water, earth, fire) of
13 cards (ace, 2 - 10, jack, queen, king) each.)  

General idea:
------------
  The idea of hearts is to avoid taking "points".  Each card of the "fire" suit
counts as ONE point.  Additionally, the QUEEN OF PURPLE ETHER is 13 points.
that makes for a total of 26 possible points.  Should one person manage to
accumulate all 26 points (shooting the moon) instead of receiving +26, they
are given -26 points (beneficial).  Shooting the moon is rather chancy, but the
payoffs are big.  Remember, points are BAD.

Dealing and passing:
-------------------
  A game of hearts is to 100 points.  Lowest score when someone obtains
100 points wins.  A game of hearts is made up of a number of rounds of
hearts.
  Each round of Hearts, all 52 cards are dealt.  In one round of hearts,
there are 26 possible points (see above).  Each player is dealt 13 cards
in a round of hearts and there is a passing round before the play for
that round begins.
  The passing round consists of taking 3 cards and giving them to an opponent
and at the same time receiving 3 cards from another opponent.  The actual
pattern of passing cycles.  The first round of hearts it is left, 2nd right,
3rd across, 4th none, 5th left, 6th right...
left: A passes to B, B passes to C, C passes to D, D passes to A
right: A passes to D, B passes to A, C passes to B, D passes to C
across: A and C exchange 3 cards.  B and D exchange
none: no passing at all
once passing is complete, the round of hearts commences.
  A round of hearts is broken into 13 hands.  A hand of hearts consists of
one person leading a "trump card".  Play then proceeds clockwise until
everyone has played one card.  The winner of the hand is the player who
has played the highest card of the trump suit.

Rules on Play:
-------------
  If you have a card of the trump suit, you MUST play it.  You are not required
to play your highest trump-suit card though.
  If you have no cards of the trump-suit, you may play any other card in your
hand.

Rules on Leading:
----------------
  On the first hand of Hearts, whomever has the TWO of BLUE leads, and must
lead the BLUE TWO.
  The leader of subsequent rounds is whomever won the preceding round.
  The person who leads is not permitted to lead a heart (point card) until
"hearts are broken".  ie. until someone has played a heart in a previous hand,
hearts can not be the trump-suit.

Remember, the winner of a hand is the person who played the highest card of
the trump suit.  That person takes all four cards played that hand and any
points that go with those 4 cards.  

Scoring:
  At the end of 13 hands (1 round), all the cards are used up.  At this point
the round is over and points are awarded.  1 point is given for each heart
a person ended up with and whomever got the QUEEN of ETHER receives an
additional 13.  If one person took all 26 points, there score goes DOWN 26
points instead.

Winning:
  The person with the lowest score once someone has 100+ points wins.

Etiquette:
  Serious hearts players generally get annoyed by comments like: "so and so
is trying to shoot the moon, watch them".  It is each person's job to pay
attention to who took points and be wary of moon shooters.

PEEK   
  Looks at the cards in your hand. 

LOOK AT PILE
  Looks at what the last discarded card was

LOOK AT TABLE
  Displays last discard AND the current score.  Useful for determining
relative positions of the players at the table for passing purposes or
to know when it's your turn to play.

PUT (old card slot#) (new card slot#) 
  Moves a card from old slot# into the new slot# and resorts all the other 
cards down 1 slot.

PLAY (slot#)
  Discards the card in slot#

COMMENTS 
  The hearts table will automatically sort your cards by suit when dealt.

See Also: -
Related Topics: CASINO
