Hobbits are the smallest of the civilized races although this fact does
not seem to bother them.  They are often called furfoots as their most
striking feature other than their size is oversized and hairy feet which
causes them to go shoe-less.  They may be dwarf or gnome related judging by
their size and their Shire's (hobbit communities)  bare some resemblances
to gnome warrens. 

Hobbit males range from 31 to 35 inches and 25 to 40 pounds.
Hobbit females range from 29 to 33 inches and 23 to 38 lbs.
At half the size of humans they always require armor made specially for
smaller folks...and even then it sometimes needs to be scaled down.

Hobbits chief advantage is their size.  Small, unnoticeable and nimble
they make excellent thieves with super-high dexterities, agility, and
speed.  For obvious reasons, they are very unbrawny and weak due to
their size.  They also have below average constitution.  Hobbits, although
not as lacking as ogres in the mental area, spend most of their time
roaming The World and exploring.  Thus, they have below average
intelligence, wisdom, and focus.  Hobbits actions are often considered
comical, and even though ill-timed, they are still basically liked.  Since
they spend so much time exploring and tend to notice the little things in
life, hobbits have an unparalleled perception.  They also have great karma,
since fate tends to shine on them when they leave their homes to explore
The World.  

Hobbits have infravision and a resistance to toxins which substantiates a
dwarven heritage.  Their short stature makes them naturally quiet and
difficult to see.  Their wanderlust allows them to range far from home.

Hobbits have a unique culture that often clashes with civilized norms.  They
have no concept of "theft" and typically those who spend time with hobbits
will find a good deal of their goods borrowed.  Do not bother to confront
them about it, they will happily return it and seem unable to understand
what they have done wrong.  Usually they just assume that if you need it,
you'd just borrow it back from them. 

See Also: INFRAVISION, OGRES, HUMANS, ELVES, DWARVES, GNOMES
Related Topics: RACES
