Lag is the result of an over-strained Internet.  It comes in two
varieties, machine lag in which the machine <h> runs on is
overburdened, and network lag caused by a poor network connection
between the end-user and the <h> host machine.

Machine lag can be created by other processes gobbling up CPU processing
time or RAM, or simply by trying to run an overly exotic MUD on an
inadequate machine.  Machine lag will cause all actions to be slowed
down, but for the most part everything is slowed down equally.  Machine
lag can be fixed by upgrading the hardware the MUD uses or by the MUD
implementors better optimizing the MUD.

Network lag is typically the result of a breakdown or bottleneck
somewhere on the Internet.  Massive or rerouted traffic on the Internet
as a whole will cause traffic jams that make communicating between the
MUD and the end-user difficult.  Typically, the communications problem is
sporadic and the lag will come and go in "bursts".  Multiple commands
will go through simultaneously, followed by a period when seemingly no
response occurs.  Network lag is sometimes caused by the MUD's machine
if the MUD has an inadequate hookup to the Internet.  Utilities like
PING and TRACEROUTE are good for tracking down the location of network
lag.

The two types of lag have different effects on the MUDder.  Since
machine lag slows everything down, all actions take longer.  Machine lag
is essentially like operating in slow motion.  There is little real
danger (other than becoming inattentive from boredom) to machine lag
since you essentially have a longer reaction time.  Network lag, on the
other hand, is MUCH worse.    It may take many seconds, even minutes,
for a command to be entered, be processed and the response to that
action to come back to the user.  Obviously, the situation could have
dramatically changed in the meantime.  In short, the user might be
responding to an event that the MUD thinks happened many seconds in the
past.  Or more to the point, you might already be dead before you even
register that you should be thinking about fleeing.

As lag is essentially beyond the control of the implementors, effects that
it may cause are not deemed reimbursable in accordance with <h> policy.
<h> regrets this, but there is simply no way for anyone to verify
if someone was lagged or not.

See Also: REIMBURSEMENT
Related Topics: GENERAL INFORMATION
