This command is used in any of the various shops around The World in order
to see what items are available for sale.  It will list item type, condition
(if appropriate), value, and number of the item the shopkeeper has for sale.

A variety of parameters can be used to simplify shopping for certain things
in the larger shops.  Some examples to illustrate:

list 10 100          : lists all items having a price between 10 and 100
                       talens (inclusive)
list 100             : identical to "list 0 100"
list helm            : lists all items with the keyword of "helm" (or that
                       "helm" is a valid abbreviation thereof).
list fit             : lists only those items that are useable by you.
                       In component shops, lists only components for spells
                       known.
list <type>          : lists items of a given type.  Type is one of:
                       slash, pierce, blunt, body, finger, wrist, legs, arms,
                       neck, feet, hands, head, back, waist, glowing, shadowy,
                       paired
                       Please note: lists of this type do NOT check
                       wearability (e.g. list head = lists items of all sizes
                       that can be worn on the head).  

All of these options can be used together:

list              : list every item the keeper has for sale.
list leather      : list every item containing the word leather in it.
list glowing      : list everything that glows
list glowing neck : list everything that glows and fits on the neck.
list glowing 1000 : list everything that glows and costs no more than 1000
list 100 1000     : list everything that costs at least 100 but no more
                    than 1000
list glowing neck leather 10000
                    list everything that glows, fits on the neck, has the
                    word leather in it but costs no more than 10000
list pierce glow  : list all pierce weapons that glow
list fit head     : list all items that fit Your character and can be
                    worn on the head

The price of items in a store fluxuate depending on market trends.  Items
that sell well may rise in price, while the price of dogs will decline.
Item's that don't sell for a long time get marked down temporarily.  You
can spot such items by looking for a (*) next to its price.

See Also: VALUE, BUY, SELL
Related Topics: SHOPS
