It's hard to know what to expect out of ongoing (or live) quests.
We realize we can't please everyone and that quests aren't made for
everyone but realize its done for the enjoyment.  As a person we hope you
realize this, the goal of a quest is not to kill the PC's but merely to
try to add some satisfaction to the monotony of the game,
as we all know it can be at times.

WHAT LEVEL CAN I QUEST IN?	
Generally when a online quest is being ran the point of it is to
know when to get involved.  Ask other people if an immortal doesn't
know the answer or the immortal running the quest doesn't answer you.
Raids are the most frequent use in quests and most will lead right
into the main city where lower levels run around.  As a quest master
I try to get everyone involved even if it means scaring newbies right out
of their boots and forcing them to flee, this also goes for the
typical folks who don't like quests and are in an area where the quest
is taking place.


WILL I DIE IN A QUEST?
For the most part it depends on you.  Know your limits, know the people who are
helping you and most of all know your foe.  Sometimes folks just walk in at the
most inopportune time when a quest is about to start and die.  This isn't intentional,
as I've stated, online quest start _outside_ the main city (Grimhaven).


ISN'T THERE AN ANNOUNCEMENT OR WARNINGS FOR QUESTS?
Yes. They are brief and sometimes obscure.  Heres an example.

A ogre shouts, "Hey who let that hobbit in?"

In the above text it could be an immortal just goofing off or
could be the begining of a quest. If the mob continues to shout
and continues on the same thread of the topic it generally means quest. 
Keep your ears open.


HEY! I DIED IN THIS SILLY QUEST AND I DIDN'T WANT TO BE IN IT!
My best advice to you is find out who's running the quest. 
Mail that immortal Sneezy mud mail and leave details of what happend.
I almost guarantee something can be worked out between you and the immortal.
We are flexible we just hope you keep your head since the person running the
quest is too busy dealing with the quest and other players.
If you are in an area you have no business being in expect no guarantees.


WHY GO ON A QUEST IF I LOSE ALL MY STUFF AND DIE!
As mentioned, quests aren't meant to kill PCs.  I can not stress to you
enough to pick a good group leader who will take you into the fray.
Look before you leap!  Many of questers have died because of their group
leader who ran head first into a dragon or a siren.
For the most part quests are fun and sometimes there are rewards
for them but not often.


QUEST REWARDS
You really shouldn't ask for them.  The quest is made for enjoyment,
someone has taken time out to provide you with some entertainment.
If the immortal is giving out rewards accept what he or she gives
you.  One reason I give out rewards is to entice folks to play quests
more often.  I think its a good incentive.


WHEN WILL THERE BE AN ONLINE QUEST?
Most quests are announced on the mortal boards near the Inns.
None however will be title (quest!) at most times.  It's best
to read them through and pay attention to the post dates.

See Also:
Related Topics: QUESTS
