The governments of SneezyMUD are controlled by players.  Specifically,
Mayors control each of the four main cities on the mud.

-The Mayors
Every 4 mud years (2 real life months) there is an election to elect
Mayors for the four major cities: Grimhaven, Brightmoon, Logrus and
Amber.  The Mayors control the city treasury as well as any shops
owned by the city.  They are responsible for setting prices on basic
services such as repairs and engraving, as well as paying out interest
on bank accounts (if they choose), and even charging sales tax.  They
control much of the basic economy of the mud.

While different Mayors may have different political theories, the
general goal is to take money out of the economy and put it to use
expanding the cities.  In addition to controlling the shops and
services owned by the city, the Mayors may choose to spend money on
various other city related expansions.  Additional guard patrols,
garbage disposal systems, Mayoral mansions and so on are all
possibilities.

-The Cities
Each of the four major cities has a corporation setup for managing the
city treasury, shops and services.  See "help corporations" for more
details on how corporations work.

The elected Mayor of each city has full control over the city
corporation and thus full control over each of the shops and services
owned by the city.  The Mayor may grant access to the individual shops
to other players.  Other government positions may be assigned in this
manner - for example, the Mayor might create a Minister of Foreign
Affairs, who would have ownership access to all city owned shops that
are outside of the city.  See "help shop ownership" for more details
on shop specific commands.

-The Shops and Services
The cities may own any type of shop that players own, as well as
several others.  Some of the shops and services that cities control
are:
* Tax Office - Mayors may alter the rate of sales tax.
* Post Offices - Mayors may alter the price of stamps.
* Banks - Mayors may alter the rate of interest paid out, as well as
  temporarily utilize deposited funds.
* Repair shops - Mayors may alter the cost, speed and quality of
  repairs.
* Hospitals, Divination, Engraving, Sharpening, Attuning, Pets - Mayors may
  alter of all of these services.

Future Mayors may come up with other types of shops and services.
Immortals will do their best to support Mayors in their endeavours
with new code and world changes, in exchange for talens.
