SneezyMUD allows you to make and play as many characters and classes as you
like.  There are 3 main rules concerning the use of multiple characters.

--
1) Multiplaying
You are only allowed to have ONE character connected to the mud at any
given time.  This rule is excepted for some immortals. This one PC rule
applies to characters in the inn and link dead characters.
You are not allowed to switch characters by dropping the link of one of
them.  You must find an inn and rent your character before logging another
on line.  Having multiple accounts, to facilitate multiplaying or otherwise,
is prohibited.  If you have forgotten your account password you may mail
mudadmin@sneezymud.com for assistance.  DO NOT create multiple
accounts if you have forgotten your password.

2) Player assistance
Using one character to assist another indirectly is prohibited.  This
includes but is not limited to doing corpse retrievals.  Using one
character to seek revenge when another of your characters is player
killed or otherwise harmed is also prohibited, as is using your other
characters for extortion or blackmail.

The exception to this rule is eq and money sharing:

3) Eq and money sharing 
You may trade eq and money between your characters.  You may not have
more than one character online at a time, but you may drop eq/money
with one character and pick it up with a second, or have someone hold
eq/money for you.

While this behavior is legal, we encourage players to build their
characters from scratch rather than "twinking" them out with shared
eq.


--

All gods will enforce these rules impartially but firmly.  Players found
violating this policy will have actions taken against them.  These
actions range from equipment deletion to account deletion and site ban
depending on the circumstances of the violation.  First time offenders
may expect to have the equipment of one or both characters deleted.  In
extreme cases, or for multiple offenses, deletion of one or both
characters is likely.

We realize that it is not always possible to enforce all of these
rules and there are some ambiguities.  When in doubt, please remember
the spirit of these rules and what they are trying to accomplish.

The most important thing is that every player have a fair chance in
the mud.  By using any of your characters to aid another of your
characters, you are being unfair to other players who abide by the
rules, and to new players who may not have friends here to aid them or
other characters.  As long as there is no blatant abuse of these
rules, such as low level characters with much higher level eq or with
large amounts of money, then there will be some flexibility.

If you believe these rules are being violated, please speak with an immortal.
