Provided your situation warrants it, equipment is typically reimbursed
by loading up the last backup file for that character.  This backup file
is typically less then 24 hours old, but you may lose some recently acquired
equipment.  In general, equipment reimbursement is only done if large portions
(or all) of your equipment is missing; single item loss is not reimbursable.
Please note, we only keep backup files for 2 days so object reimbursements
from times beyond this period are more difficult to do, and hence less likely
to be done.

Example 1:  (corpse loss due to reboot)
You die, and 30 secs later (before you can get back to corpse), the game
crashes or reboots.  Our fault.  Talk to a 54+ god.  They'll remake all your
items and either return it to you or put it at the spot you died for you to
attempt the recovery.  However, if in the opinion of the immortal sufficient
time passed between when you died and when game went down (30-45 minutes),
they may not feel so benevolent about a reimbursement.

Example 2:  (fighting while linkdead)
The game kicks you out (lost link).  You log back in and find yourself without
armor, talens or weapons.  You've only been gone a few seconds.  Chances are
HELP LOSING LINK will answer your questions.

Example 3:  (item confiscation due to rent charges)
It's 2 am and the game crashes.  You decide to call it a night and go to bed.
You log in the next day and are informed that you ran up 50000 coins rent
which you can't afford and your items have been confiscated.  Damn, you forgot
about that extra Sword of Damocles you were meaning to auction before you
left.  Boy those things are expensive!  Reimbursable?  No, your fault.  There
is a 30 minute grace period following a reboot for people to log back in and
be charged no rent, after that, rent is full price.  Since the game reboots in
about 3 minutes, there is no real reason to fall victim to this problem save
impatience and/or ignorance.

Example 4:  (rent file corruption)
Administrative problems have been known to generate corrupted data in the
rent file.  This is typically denoted by the player when they realize a large
portion of what they rented out with did not load.  Complete reimbursement
should be expected but it may require a high level god to carry this out.
Auto-wiped characters who are deleted for failure to log in at all within a
set amount of time are a gray area and will be handled on a case by case basis.
However, just because you can't find something that you think you rented out
with after you rent back in does NOT mean your file has become corrupted.  A
god can verify that the number of items loaded equaled the number rented with;
if they match, then you should suspect that either rent charges caused 
confiscation (you would have been notified of this), or that you didn't have
the item (theft, etc) like you thought you did when you logged out.

Example 5:  (auto-rent)
Your link has lagged all day and during a long stretch, you give up and break
link.  Whatever happens to you after this point is your responsibility.  You
will eventually be rented after being in game for and inactive, but
during that time should you die (starvation, hating mob catching up to you
while you are away, etc.) you're basically at the mercy of whatever immortal
hears your plea.  Breaking link is NOT a recommended way of leaving the game.
We have installed a few safeguards for character safety, but if all those
fail, you're on your own.  Rent out when finished playing for the night, we
guarantee the safety of that (provided you can afford rent of course).

Example 6:  (follower's equipment)
You give a spare obsidian longsword to your charmed golem.  The game crashes
or reboots and when you reconnect, your golem no longer has the sword.  No
reimbursement allowed.  Equipment given to NPC's is not eligible for
reimbursement.  NPC's covers any creature that is not a real person (mounts,
charms, pets, thralls, etc).

Example 7:  (dropped items)
Due to volume/weight problems, you drop a bag in order to sort things out.
Wham!  Crash-a-rama!  No reimb allowed.  Don't drop it unless you are willing
to lose it forever.  Please note, this case is a catch-all for anything that
causes an item to leave your hands and end up on the ground (disarm, fumble,
etc) or otherwise not in your possession (impaled weapons, etc).

Example 8:  (single item loss)
You notice your ring of the ancients is missing.  Everything else seems ok
though.  Damn, rent must have eaten it, right?  Not necessarily.  Immortals
will verify that the number of items rented out with equals the number you
loaded with.  If there is a discrepancy, restitution will be made.  In other
situations, single-item reimbursement are not allowed as they are generally
the result of non-code related issues (thieves, dropped weapons, burned
tickets, misjunked items, wear and tear, scrapping, etc).

Example 9:  (single item loss due to mud functionality)
The ONE exception to the above two examples comes in if an item was removed
from your possession because it was in the possession of one of the utility
mobs.  For example, if Beavis has your sword for sharpening at the time of
the crash, or if an item is being engraved when it goes down, it will be
replaced.  This exception does NOT cover any mob picking the item up, just
the utility mobs doing their utility functions (sharpener/engraver).  It is
also only for crashes, timed shutdowns are not covered.  Lastly, restitution
for this is at the immortals discretion.  It should be verifiable that you gave
the item away, but if not then no reimbursement.

See Also: LOSING LINK
Related Topics: RULES
