Ogres have only been members of the civilized races for the last 200 years
when StonesHead the Mighty settled his tribe and "negotiated" ("You give food,
me no kill") a peace with those he formerly raided.  They have met with some
resistance from the other races who do not completely trust them, but progress
toward equality is being made.  Not all ogres are to be considered civilized
as roughly half of their population is still considered wild.

Ogre males range from 85 to 95 inches and 292 to 424 pounds.
Ogre females range from 83 to 93 inches and 262 to 394 lbs.
Ogres are typically larger than the average human.  Rarely are they able
to fit into human-sized armor.  Being a wild race, most ogres tend to wear
armor made from hides or skins.  Due to their contact with civilization
though, certain armors have been made to fit them.

Ogres have superior strength, capable of going well beyond the human maximum
while the weakest ogre is able to compete with the strongest human.  They
surpass even dwarves in strength and brawn.  Having lived mostly in the
outdoors, ogres are very hardy in constitution.  Their large size though
makes them rather clumsy and not very dextrous.  However, constant
fighting has allowed them to have higher slightly speed then might be
expected by their large size.  Karma usually frown upon them since they
are rash in thought and usually put themselves in the face of danger,
favoring fighting over negotiation or a more favorable way out.
Intelligence, wisdom, focus, and perception are severely lacking due to
their tendency to react rather then to think.  Also, most races are
repulsed by the habits of ogres, making charisma very low.

Ogres toughness grants them resistances to the effects of nature.  Fire,
cold and poison have little if any effect, although in extreme cases an
ogre has been known to succumb.  Additionally, their size makes it simplicity
itself to trek many leagues without tiring.  The downside of their size is that
it makes them rather noisy which is exasperated by their brash and surly 
manners.

See Also: HUMANS, ELVES, DWARVES, HOBBITS, GNOMES
Related Topics: RACES
