Mezan, the Father.
   Ruler of Balance and Fate, Mezan is married to Malshyra and father to 
   Luna, Sa'Sukey and Sin'Sukey.  Mezan is typically regarded as the head of
   all deities.  True to his philosophy, Mezan seeks balance in all actions,
   even when such balance leads to unwise results.  Mezan does not champion
   any faction, treating each even-handedly.  Members of the Order and the
   Unaffiliated often give prayers to Mezan nevertheless.

Luna, the Lifegiver.
   Deity of Life and Fortune.  Luna is the daughter of Mezan and Malshyra and
   created Elyon from the last vestiges of Magik to accompany her as her
   husband.  Luna is the mother of Talana, Lesprit and Menanon.  Luna takes
   after her father, although she tends to favor the Order, often granting
   powers over life to its followers.

Sa'Sukey, the Stable.
   Sa'Sukey is the son of Mezan and Malshyra, married Talana, and has Icon and
   Salurel as sons.  Sa'Sukey is the twin brother of Sin'Sukey.  Sa'Sukey is
   known to aid the Order with powers of protection.

Sin'Sukey, the Unstable.
   Sin'Sukey is the son of Mezan and Malshyra, married Menanon, and has Omnon
   and Amana for children.  Sin'Sukey is the twin brother of Sa'Sukey.
   Sin'Sukey is known to aid the Order with powers of pain and attack.

Icon, the Rich.
   Deity of trade and profit.  Icon is the son of Talana and Sa'Sukey.  His
   love triangle with Lesprit and Omnon is well known and often turns violent.
   Icon is the patron deity of merchants and his aid for the Order is well
   documented.

Elyon, the Wise.
   Deity of Justice and Strength.  Elyon was created by Luna to accompany her
   as her husband.  Elyon has three daughters, Talana, Lesprit and Menanon.
   Elyon spends much time in meditation, and is thought to have spoken
   frequently with Galek Brightmoon.  His wisdom makes him a frequent mediator
   in disputes amongst the deities, although his short-temper causes problems
   for him in his quest for justice and wisdom.  The Brotherhood holds Elyon
   in very high regard.
   
Jevon, the Thinker.
   Deity of Faith and Virtue.  Jevon is the son of Lesprit, and half brother to
   Shroud.  His father is either Icon or Omnon.  Jevon had a disturbed
   childhood, always trying to figure out which of the two deities that courted
   his mother was his true father.  Jevon spends his free time trying to reason
   his way through his dilemma.  Jevon is tormented by the thoughts that he
   is somehow responsible for his dilemma, and strives toward a pure lifestyle
   in a warped attempt to learn the truth through virtuous living.  The
   Brotherhood holds Jevon's way of living and thinking in high regard.

Omnon, the Omnipresent.
   Deity of Knowledge and Transportation.  Omnon is the son of Sin'Sukey and
   Menanon and is deeply in love with Lesprit.  Omnon is somehow able to
   simultaneously exist at all locations in The World, although the more
   incarnations of Omnon that exist, the less substantial each one is.  Omnon's
   unique ability allows him to eavesdrop on any occurrence and also makes him
   uniquely qualified for carrying messages for the other deities.  Omnon
   favors the Brotherhood.

Menanon, the Unbound.
   Deity of Freedom.  Daughter of Luna and Elyon, she is the mother of Omnon
   and Amana.  Menanon chafes at the prospect of rigid structure and despises
   those that sacrifice their individuality in the name of order or security.
   naturally, she is worshiped by the Brotherhood, even if they do question her
   anarchical philosophies.  Menanon carries on relations with Sin'Sukey, but
   her philosophies and his mental state makes this accommodation anything but
   a true marriage.

Amana, the Pure.
   Deity of Love.  Amana is the daughter of Sin'Sukey and Menanon.  She is 
   somewhat disturbed by her parents relationship, and desperately seeks out
   the affections she never received from her parents.  She is somewhat
   jealous of Lesprit's beauty and ability to attract both Icon and her brother,
   Omnon.  Her relations are always platonic.  She strongly encourages both
   the institution of marriage and the process of child-rearing.

Malshyra, the Glorious.
   Deity of Success and Conquest.  Malshyra is wife to Mezan, father of all
   deities, and produced Luna, and the twins Sa'Sukey and Sin'Sukey.  
   Malshyra believes in preparedness and destruction of opposition through
   overwhelming power.  She is the chief deity of the Cult of Logrus.  Her
   wrath and vengeance are well known.  It is the unwise adventurer that does
   not offer Malshyra thanks before AND after any undertaking.

Shroud, the Undying.
   Deity of the Sick and Dying.  Shroud is the younger half-brother of Jevon and
   son of Lesprit.  His father is thought to be either Omnon or Icon.  Shroud
   avoided the insanity that overwhelms his half-brother by spending much of
   his early years with his grandmother Luna.  From her, he learned the powers
   over life, but with few sources of magik remaining, he is limited in the
   undertakings possible.  Nevertheless, his control over disease and age is
   second only to Luna's.  Shroud's early experiments with Luna left him deeply
   disfigured and he is strongly ashamed of his outwardly appearance.  Shroud
   loathes worshipers, and only those well beyond hope of other treatments think
   of making offerings to him.  Those that become one of "Shroud's Own" often
   regret that decision.

Lesprit, the Desirable.
   Deity of Lust and Desire.  Lesprit is the elder daughter of Luna and Elyon.
   Her beauty is second only to Amana's, although Lesprit's more stable
   personality make her the more attractive.  Lesprit is the granter of
   wishes and fulfiller of fantasies.  Lesprit tends toward fickleness and
   loves confounding those around her.  She alone may know the answer to the
   mysteries of her son's, Jevon and Shroud, births but is not likely to reveal
   it any time soon due to her capriciousness.

Talana, the Lawgiver.
   Deity of Discipline and Retribution.  Talana is the middle daughter of Luna
   and Elyon and has married Sa'Sukey.  Constantly buffeted by her siblings
   fights, Talana turned to strict rules to obtain resolutions.  Talana's rules
   are not so much regarded as just, so much as they are of bringing about
   order.  Talana is authoritative in her dealings and is a strict proponent
   of any agreement.  Her discipline is well known, and highly viewed by the
   Cult of Logrus.

Salurel, the Proud.
   Deity of Self-Promotion.  Daughter of Talana and Sa'Sukey, Salurel spent
   most of her early life in the shadow of her brother Icon.  As she reached
   maturity, she came into her own and began to trumpet her own horn in order
   to avoid being neglected.  Salurel tends toward exaggeration although her
   claims are never wholly without an element of truth.  Salurel surrounds
   herself with those seeking acknowledgement, and she takes pride in
   recognizing early those people that have the potential for greatness.
   Salurel often introduces her followers to each other, especially when such
   a union might have a synergistic effect and Salurel is able to take some
   credit for the outcome.  She favors those seeking power, especially members
   of The Cult, although she disdains their maliciousness.

See Also: DEITIES
Related Topics: FACTIONS
