Trainers are very busy and have set the following ground rules for who
they will teach.  In general, <h> learning is divided into basic
disciplines and specializations.  Till the character has learned the
basics to a certain point, the character will not be able to learn at
a more specialized trainers.

Fighting classes must generally learn combat and the <class> Abilities
discipline fully before advancing to specialization disciplines.  Casters
generally must learn their <class> discipline fully and must put 100
practices into either lore/theology or combat.  In addition, one can not
race ahead and learn only skills but must maintain a certain amount of the
more generalized theology/lore/combat disciplines per level till you have
finished basic training. 

Combat:  The combat trainer will teach anyone who wants to learn and has
         some practices.

Lore, Theology: These trainers will train their respective classes at 
         any time and is an alternative path from combat in finishing
         casting classes basic training.  You do not have to max either
         combat or lore/theology but need the combination to exceed
         a respectable amount before advanced trainers will teach you.

Utility Disciplines (Adventuring, Wizardry, Faith, etc) will be taught
         naturally by the guild master over time.  There are rumors
         that some trainers in The World will let you spend practices 
         in increasing these skills prematurely

<Class> Abilities:  The basic class trainer will require you to keep your
                    basic training disciplines up.  You must maintain 3.5*
		    level learning in either combat, lore, theology or a 
		    combination.

<Weapon> Specialization:  The weapon trainers will require you to complete
                          your basic training skills before they will waste
                          their time teaching advanced weapons skills.

Advanced Disciplines:  The advanced skill/spell disciplines will require a
                       student to complete their basic training and class
                       disciplines before taking them on as an advanced
                       student.
                  


All trainers will require practices and actual learning of skills will
depend on your use of those skills over time.

See Also: PRACTICE, GAIN, DISCIPLINES
Related Topics: CLASSES, LEARNING

