Throughout <h> there are mobiles that perform specialized functions that
require player interaction.  We call these QUEST MOBS.  In general a quest mob 
can be activated in a number of ways.  Some respond to being given an
item.  Some respond to being asked a question or asked about a name.
Others respond to a specific keyword or the word "Hello".  A lot of the
trainers and guildmaster will respond to the keywords "next trainer" and
"next guildmaster".

From the response that the quest mob gives in response to the initial prompt
the player is expected to figure out what to say or do to trigger the next 
response from the quest mob.  In addition to "say" try using "ask" to ask 
questions of quest mobs.  Generally quest mobs will not respond while in
combat.

Quest mobs will also react to being given specific items and money. The
will generally also know what state of a quest you are on in a multi part
quest and will not react to an object that they may react to later in the
same quest.  Quest mobs will *not* give objects back to you if you give
them the object so be careful with what you give them.  There is no
reimbursement for items given to a quest mob.

Some mobs will answer under only certain conditions and depending on how
far you have progressed on a quest.  <h> does keeps track of your
progress on quests.

Quest mobs are used extensively in the skill system to have you learn
quest skills. Generally, you will be started on a quest by you guildmaster
on obtaining a certain level and must just follow instructions. 

Some of the common functions of the quest mob are:
   To run built-in quests
   To give information about a specific subject
   To trade items for money
   To trade items for items or change an item.
   To provide quests for learning skills and spells.

Some examples to look for as you explore are:
   Guildmasters and trainers
   Newsboys and orc merchants in Grimhaven

Quest mobs will become an increasing part of <h> in this and future 
versions so keep an eye out for new ways that they may be being used.

Good luck in your adventures.

See Also:
Related Topics: QUESTS
