Quests come in two forms: hard-coded and god run.  Hard coded ones will
generally be available to every player in the mud because the quest is
part of The World and run by the code.  Hard coded quests include most of 
the skill and spell quests.  See Help Quest Mobs.

The rest of this help file is about god run quests.

God run quests are typically run by immortals as special events.  Average
quests can be completed in an evening (3-4 hours) and major quests may
involve multiple nights.  Because of the time involved, they are generally
run when folks are not busy (evenings, weekends and holidays). 

Quests will most certainly go beyond the bounds of what you should expect
from a normal mudding session.  Blithely assuming something will or will
not occur simply because "it doesn't normally happen" while questing is a
good way to end up dead.  Wandering into someone else's quest ignorantly or
on purpose is another good way to die.  In general, don't quest unless you
are an experienced mudder, capable of handling your character to the best of
your ability and avoid a quest group unless they ask you to join.

Why quest?  Quests generally offer a far better opportunity for advancement.
The experience points are greater, the talens are higher, the interactions and
role play are more entertaining with the downside being a necessary increase
in danger.  Additionally, wishes are sometimes although not always awarded at
the culmination of the quest to the adventurer or group of adventurers
who best completed the quest.

<h> quests should be solvable, but poor play on the part of the questers,
foolish thinking, excessive clues required, multiple stupid deaths and the
like make it less likely that you will obtain the greatest award possible for
the quest.

The only restrictions on ALL quests of any type are as follows:
1.) each person may only control ONE quester.  All other characters for that
person MUST remain logged off for the duration of the quest.
2.) a person who maintains an immortal character on <h> is excluded from
participating in a quest as a mortal.
3.) a character may only join a quest all ready underway at the discretion of
the immortal running the quest and with the OK of the current questers.
4.) decision to quest is made explicitly by joining a quest or implicitly
by wandering into the quest region (intentionally or accidentally).  Since
adequate warning of quest-in-progress is normally given to the observant, no
reimbursements as a result of questing are normally given.

Lastly, nothing annoys an immortal more than a person who asks that a
quest be run (especially if they ask for a "personal quest").  Quests are run
as the time of the immortals permits and as the idea for them is thought out.
Spur of the moment quests just lack in originality, are unbalanced and 
generally wind up creating more problems in terms of excessive deaths, etc.

See Also: QUEST MOBS
Related Topics: QUESTS
