<h> 5.0 help for choosing your race :

Race on <h> impacts certain physical qualities (height, weight, age, etc).
In addition, certain races have benefits and detriments that will impact what
that race is and is not capable of.  

Please be aware that The World is predominantly human which makes playing
a non-human more of a challenge.  New players are encouraged to play humans
until you become accustomed to <h>.

Complete details on any of these races is available once you are logged in
by typing HELP <race>.  For now, here is a quick summary:  Average is based
upon human stats.  So well above average means well above the human norm. 
Well below average means, just the opposite.  This is to give one a quick feel
for how races compare to humans.  Remember that <h> now uses a
new rating system for stats (30-180 for player races), and that human stats
fall around the average value of 105.

-----------------------------

HUMANS:
  Average:  all stats
  No special abilities are granted to humans, but their ability to be good at
  all classes and their access to ample amounts of equipment make them
  a favorable class to play overall.

DWARVES:
  Well above average:  Constitution
  Above average:  Strength, Brawn, Karma
  Average:  Wisdom, Focus
  Below Average:  Dexterity, Agility, Intelligence, Perception, Charisma
  Well Below Average: Speed
 -resistant to poison, charm, sleep, and energy.
 -have infravision
 -fast food metabolism, slow drink metabolism
 -height and weight make dwarves heavier than water
 
ELVES:
  Well above average:  Intelligence
  Above average:  Dexterity, Agility, Focus, Speed
  Average:  Wisdom, Charisma
  Below Average:  Strength, Perception, Karma
  Well Below Average: Brawn, Constitution
 -resistant to charm, paralysis, sleep
 -very slow food metabolism, very fast drink metabolism
  
GNOMES:
  Well Above Average:  Intelligence, Wisdom, Focus
  Above Average:  Perception, Charisma
  Below Average:  Brawn, Constitution, Dexterity, Agility
  Well Below Average:  Strength, Karma, Speed
 -resistant to energy
 -have infravision
 -fast food metabolism, slow drink metabolism
 
HOBBITS:
  Well Above Average:  Dexterity, Agility, Speed
  Average:  Perception, Charisma, Karma
  Below Average:  Constitution, Wisdom, Focus
  Well Below Average:  Strength, Brawn, Intelligence
 -resistant to poison
 -have infravision
 -very fast food metabolism, slow drink metabolism
 -cultural bias against footwear
 
OGRES:
  Well Above Average:  Strength, Brawn
  Above Average:  Constitution, Karma
  Average: Perception
  Below Average:  Dexterity, Agility, Intelligence, Wisdom, Focus, Speed
  Well Below Average: Charisma
 -resistant to heat, cold, poison
 -slow food metabolism, fast drink metabolism
 
Note:  After choosing your race, realize that the above information refers to
the average norm for a race.  This means, what a race has if you do not modify
any stat and go directly to the game.  If you modify the value of a stat during
character generation, realize that you also may change the above relationships.
Also note, that average does not mean plain and boring.  Average implies that
a stat will not suffer any penalties nor bonuses.
