SneezyMUD is a very fast-paced text based game, and it can be hard to keep up
with all the words scrolling by as fast as they do.

Here are a few tips on how to reduce spam and help you to zero in on the
important information you need to see while ignoring information that may not
be as helpful in that moment.

Set up your terminal:
Type HELP TERMINAL to see your options.
  *  Set your screensize correctly.  Toggle screensize <number>
  *  If possible, use the status bar offered by the ANSI or VT100 terminals,
as the status bar will never scroll off your screen.

Turn color on:
Type HELP COLOR to see your options.
  *  SneezyMUD is colorized to highlight important details and to help give
extra information with less words.  For instance, when your opponent hits
you, the hit keyword is in red.  When you hit your opponent, the keyword is
in green.  These clues allow you to quickly see how well the fight is going.
As one player put it, when there's more red than green, the fight isn't
going so well.

Set up your prompt:
Type HELP PROMPT to see your options.
  *  Even if you are using the status bar, it can help to include a couple of
the most important pieces of information on your prompt, such as hit points.
You can even colorize your prompt to make these things stand out even more.

Set your toggles:
Type HELP TOGGLE to see your options.
There are several toggles that will help you reduce the spam you see.
  *  The first is obviously the spam control toggle.  Toggle this on to filter
out combat misses and compact other combat-related information.
  *  Select nospells or halfspells to reduce the spam that casting creates.
Each round of casting generally has some kind of information on how successful
the caster is in casting the spell.  This can be valuable information, but it
does create a lot of extra text.
  *  Toggle compact to reduce the amount of white space.  White space can help
you see better in some cases, but in others it just causes more scrolling.
  *  Turn off any automatic functions like eating, dissecting or opening
moneypouches.  
  *  Turn off extra informational toggles such as tips, trophy, limbs or
showsaves. 
  *  The hero sprites are valuable mobs who cast spells on you, but if you are
desperate to reduce the spam, you can toggle hero-sprite to repel them.

For advanced players only:
  *  Toggle brief will eliminate the room descriptions and extra visual
information about players or mobs in the room with you.  This can be helpful
in large groups, but confusing for new users or when exploring.

See Also: TOGGLE, TERMINAL, COLOR, PROMPT
Related Topics: SCREEN
