Syntax:	request

This will drop you into	a simple editor	similar	to the in-MUD mail system.

Type ~ and return on a blank line to send your request, or ` on a blank line to       
cancel your help request.

The request command is for any and all types of request you may have of staff!
Things like requesting reimbursements, reporting problems with a coded quest, 
nominating yourself or others for SneezyMUD community points, asking for a news-
letter bulletin to be written to advertise your event, or just getting stuck on
some particular command or how-to and needing a bit of help.

In a nutshell, if you would like to communicate with one of the SneezyMUD staff,
this command will get their attention quickly!

The staff monitors the request queue on a very regular basis and attempts to
respond to all requests in a timely manner.  Sometimes you may not receive a
response immediately; this may be because your issue is being discussed among
staff and there is no answer for you yet.  We do try to drop you a line to let
you know that as well, but it doesn't always happen.  Rest assured, though; if
you make a request using this command, we're listening!

Of course, not all requests are guaranteed to be granted.  We may deny a request
for one reason or another, and we will inform you of the approval or denial of
your request as soon as possible.

Please include your preferred method of contact if you believe your request may
require some further discussion; MUDmail can get clunky and playing tell-tag is
nobody's idea of a good time, so if you would like for us to contact you by email,
let us know.  Be sure your account email is up to date ('help email' for more 
info).  Also: IMPORTANT: If your request is specific to a particular character,
PLEASE specify the character affected.

Alternatively, you may visit http://www.sneezymud.com/Contact_Us.html and fill 
out the	web form to make your request.  You may find this preferable for longer
requests.

See Also: BUG, TYPO, IDEA
Related Topics: UTILITY

