The rules of SneezyMUD:

1) <c>First, do no harm.<z>  It is expected that you will be conscious of how your
actions will affect the MUD and its players.  Any action that is detrimental
to the MUD can be considered a violation of the rules.  This would include
exploiting bugs, harassing players or immortals, denial of service attacks,
technological trespass of the servers or any other action that is malicious 
in nature or detrimental to the MUD. 

2) <c>One person, one account.<z>  Do not create or attempt to access multiple
accounts.  This includes logging your friends on, having someone else log in
your account for you, attempting to "hack" into someone else's account or any
other actions that involve one person accessing more than one account. Doing 
so will result in the deletion of all suspected accounts.

3) <c>Accounts must have strong passwords and current, valid email addresses.<z> It
is up to you to safeguard your password.  You may use the EMAIL command to 
update your email address.  Please keep it current.  See our PRIVACY POLICY.

4) <c>Your characters must not interact with one another, directly or indirectly.<z>
This includes but is not limited to: Corpse retrievals, weapon or other item
retrievals or using one character to eliminate danger or obstacles for another
character.   If there's any question whether your action could be considered
"multiplay," ask yourself, "Does doing this give an advantage to my other
character which it would not have otherwise?"  If the answer is yes, that is
multiplay.   The only exception to the multiplay rules is equipment/money
sharing.  You may freely transfer money or items between your characters.

5) <c>Player killing and player looting are prohibited.<z>  Intentional player
killing or player theft will result in penalties for the player killer or
looter and reimbursement for the victim. In other words, it won't even be
worth your time to break this rule.

6) <c>Do not subject players to unwanted spam or spoilers.<z> Using shout, 
tell, title or the forums to spam other players or to force spoilers (specific 
information about items, mobs, quests, locations or other things that require 
divination or experience to discover) on players who do not want them is 
considered harassment.  Use shout with care and in moderation.  Spoilers are
to be exchanged only among willing players who are aware they are receiving 
spoilers.  Spoilers may be posted on the wiki only if they include adequate 
spoiler warnings.

All gods will enforce these rules impartially but firmly.  The consequences
of violating these policies will depend on the severity of the infraction.
These may include warnings, time spent in Hell, equipment deletion, character
deletion, account deletion and banishment.

If you see anybody violating our rules, do not attempt to take the law into
your own hands.  Contact a god to report it and carry on with your playing.
You can use our contact form: <c>http://www.sneezymud.com/Contact_Us.html<z>

More details about <h>'s rules are in help files listed below.  Familiarize
yourself with the details, as ignorance is not an acceptable excuse.

See help files on:
PKILL		  PLOOT		   MULTI PLAYING     CHARACTER USAGE		
GODS		  LOSING LINK	   REIMBURSEMENT     STORAGE CHARACTERS
FOLLOWER RULES

In addition, certain privileges carry with them a degree of responsibility.
As such, guidelines for the use of these commands have been devised so as
not to annoy the SneezyMUD community.  Please review the help files on for
specifics:
SHOUT		TITLE		TELL

See HELP for other major fields of information.

