Every shop in the game can be owned by players.  When you purchase a
shop, you pay for the value of the inventory, the value of the gold
the shopkeeper has and a large amount of non-refundable tax to the
king.  This means that you will initially be in debt when you purchase
the shop.

You will also have to pay a salary to keep the shop running, so you
will need a constant profit in order to break even.  If your
shopkeeper runs out of cash while paying the salary, he will drop
items in the dump to pay for it.  If there is no money and no
inventory, the shop will be automatically repossessed by the
shopkeeper.  You will receive no cash from this transaction.

Selling and buying from your shop are untaxed.  Unlimited items that a
shop produces cost a certain amount to produce.  Therefore, if your
profit_buy is lower than 1.0, you will lose money on unlimited items.

You may whisper various commands to the shopkeepers:

-info
Get some information from the shopkeeper about the value of his/her
inventory, buy/sell ratios, types of objects they deal in and the
purchase price of the shop, if it is available for sale.  This command
is not available unless the shop is for sale, or the owner of the shop
has specifically given you permission to view the shop info.

example: whisper Dwayne info

-buy
Buy the shop.  You must have enough cash on hand to cover the cost.
The price of the shop is determined by the cost of the inventory, the
amount of gold the shopkeeper has on hand, a flat surcharge paid to
the king and a percentage of the shop value, also paid to the king.
Once you purchase a shop, the money that goes to the king is GONE
FOREVER.  You will have to recover that money in sales in order to
break even.

example: whisper Dwayne buy

-sell 
Sell the shop.  You will receive the value of the gold the shopkeeper
on hand but no value for the inventory.  The shop will immediately
become available for re-sale.  There is no tax for selling a shop.

example: whisper Dwayne sell

-setrates <profit_buy> <profit_sell> <max_num> <default|match|item|player> [keyword]
Set the buy/sell profit ratios and max_num of the shop.  These
determine what percentage of the object value the shop will buy and
sell items for and the max number of items it will carry.  You can
also set the ratios for individual items (only for items in your inventory),
or list all of the items with individual ratios, or for keywords.

example: whisper Dwayne setrates 1.1 0.9 10 default
example: whisper Dwayne setrates 1.8 0.9 10 studded-shield
example: whisper Dwayne setrates 1.8 0.9 10 match studded-leather
example: whisper Dwayne setrates 5.0 0.1 1 player Peel
example: whisper Dwayne setrates clear all
example: whisper Dwayne setrates clear studded-shield
example: whisper Dwayne setrates clear match studded-leather
example: whisper Piggot setrates 1.0 1.0 0 repair
example: whisper Monti setrates 4 5000000 6 loanrate
example: whisper Dwayne setrates

Note that all shops have a limit to the number of items they can have in
their inventory.  Currently this limit is 2500.

-give <amount>
Order the shopkeeper to hand over some of his gold.  You may use this
to reap your profits.  Don't forget that the shopkeeper needs some
gold available in order to buy items from players.

example: whisper Dwayne give 1000

-logs
See the transaction logs for the shop.  Every sale and purchase is
recorded, along with the talen amounts and value of the shop.  You can
also choose to clear the logs or see some summaries or see logs for a
particular player.

You can also view your shop logs on the web, including a comma
delimited format that can be imported into a spreadsheet, here:
http://sneezy.saw.net/shopinfo.cgi

example: whisper Dwayne logs
example: whisper Dwayne logs clear
example: whisper Dwayne logs summaries
example: whisper Dwayne logs Peel
example: whisper Dwayne logs balance

-statements <year>
Ask for an income statement and a balance sheet for the given year.  If no
year is specified you will receive one for the current year to date.  The
year is specified in Sneezy time, and one Sneezy year is approximately
14.5 days.  These financial statements are made using standard GAAP 
accounting as much as possible.

example: whisper Dwayne statements
example: whisper Dwayne statements 988

-dividend <dividend>
Change the dividend rate for this shop.  This is the percentage of each
sale that will be kicked back up to the corporate bank account.  For
example, if you set the dividend to 0.10, and then sell an item for
5000 talens, your shopkeeper will immediately deposit 500 talens into
the corporate account.  The practical max dividend is 1.0.

example: whisper Dwayne dividend 0.10

-reserve <min> <max>
Change the reserve range for the shop.  Anytime the shop talens are less
than the min reserve money will be withdrawn from the owning corporation.
Anytime the shop talens are more than the max reserve, money will be
deposited to the corporation.  The balance amount is the mid-point between
the min and max.  For example, if the min is 900000 and the max is 1100000,
then a reserve adjustment will leave it at 1000000 if possible.  Setting
either to 0 disables this feature.  This feature relies on ownership
for permission.

example: whisp Dwayne reserve 900000 1100000
example: whisp Dwayne reserve 0 0

-string (<which> <string>)
Change a response string for the shopkeeper.  With no arguments, the
shopkeeper will list out each string and what the current response is.

example: whisp Dwayne string missing_cash2 You be straight trippin' dog!
example: whisp Dwayne string message_buy Sweet, now I can afford the %d talen
				full service from your mom!

-access (<player> (<access code>))
Change the permissions for other players to access your shop.  You
determine the access code by adding the values of the permissions you
want for a player.  The permissions are:

Owner, 1 - The owner of the shop has ALL of the permissions available,
except sell, regardless of other settings.  There may be more than one owner.
Info, 2 - Allow use of the info command.
Profits, 4 - Allow setting of buy/sell ratios.
Give, 8 - Allow use of the give command.
Sell, 16 - Allow the player to sell the shop.
Access, 32 - Allow the player to changed access permissions.
Logs, 64 - Allow the player to see the shop transaction logs.
Dividend, 128 - Allow the player to set the dividend rate

You can also issue the access command without an argument to list all
of the current players with access to the shop.

example: whisp Dwayne access Peel
example: whisp Dwayne access
example: whisp Dwayne access Peel 14
(give Peel permission to use info, set profit ratios and use the give command)





