Syntax: shout <message>

Shouting will send a message to everyone who is within the mud, but is not
without its consequences. Shouting takes much energy, and therefore
costs some movement per shout. Also because of the awesome drain on
your body caused by shouting, you will be stuck for 4 seconds.

There are some pieces of etiquette that are maintained.  These policies
are enforced principally because of the global nature of shout.  Some people
may want to figure some things out for themselves, and someone shouting 
something may hamper this opportunity for them.

1.) Avoid offending large segments of the population.  You are not
required to be politically correct and obscenities are OK (within reason) 
but realize that shouting insults does not endear you to either the other
players or the gods.

2.) "Spam" is generally frowned upon.  Yelling "Level!" or messages over and
over again generally irritates people.

3.) Using shout as a crutch to avoid exploration is frowned upon by the gods.
Asking "where is the (key, piece of equipment, guildmaster)" is a good way
to lose shout.  You may talk (or tell) but please don't shout as we want you
to explore.

4.) Asking "how do I get back from (or to)" some place is also bad.  Explore!
If you didn't map your way in, that's your fault.  There are few places 
intentionally designed to confuse mappers (no teleport mazes and the like)
and few rooms where going north then south doesn't return to original room.
Make a map!

5.) Do not ask for, or reveal stats on items.  Finding out what items are
useful and what aren't is part of the fun (and challenge).  The only
exception to this rule is if you are auctioning an item, you may reveal
what you think the stats are to improve the sale price.

6.) If a God asks you not to shout a specific thing, because it is irritating
you are expected to comply.
 
The ability to shout is considered a privilege.  It is generally granted
upon obtaining level 2, but may be revoked on an individual basis for
failure to follow the guidelines above. 

See Also: TOGGLE (noshout), TELEPATHY, TELL
Related Topics: COMMUNICATIONS
