Skunk:
------
Excerpts from Animal Speak by Ted Andrews.

The skunk is one of the most widely recognized mammals, but it is also one of the most
misunderstood. It is a very powerful totem with mystical and magical associations. Just
look at how people respond to it. They show great respect for it and what it can do. This
is part of what skunk teaches. It teaches how to give respect, expect respect, and demand
respect. It helps you to recognize your own qualities and to assert them.
The skunk does not get out of the way of any animal. It moves along at its own speed,
with its own mind. It is self-assured and confident in itself. If skunk has shown up, it
can be to help you with this particular aspect. It can teach you how to be more
self-assured and how to assert yourself.
Skunks are fearless, but they are also very peaceful. They move slowly and calmly, and
they only spray as a last resort. Because they are peaceable by nature, they always give
warnings before spraying. This warning involves three stages. First, it will stamp its
feet and turn its back to you. Second it will raise its tail up, as the gland which
sprays is located underneath it. When the third step arrives, it is usually too late.
After raising the tail, the skunk will look back over its shoulder. This is to line up
the correct angle for spraying. Once the skunk has seen you over its shoulder, it is too
late.
The skunk can spray 1245 feet with tremendous accuracy. It can repeat the spraying five
to six times before it must build up again naturally. The spray is an irritating
chemical. It won't kill, but it can sting the eyes and numb the senses. Sometimes a skunk
can show up as a totem to teach us how to get more attention without being arrogant and
irritating. Sometimes it shows up to help us deal with those people in our life who are
outrageously irritating. Tomato juice is still the one thing which helps to eliminate
skunk odor. Those with this totem may find they have a sensitivity to tomato, or a need
for more within their life. The qualities and characteristics of the tomato should be
studied as it is part of the contrary or balancing medicine associated with the skunk.
The skunk smell is one that almost everyone can recognize. This has links to how skunk
awakens in others a greater recognition of you and your own abilities. The sense of smell
also has ties to sensuality and sexuality. Research is currently being conducted that
reveals the various connections between fragrance and sexual response. This includes work
with pheromones and studies that reveal a surprising similarity between the cells of
and response of the olfactory nerves, and those within the genitalia.
The skunk is a solitary animal for the most part. Skunks can remind us that there are
times best for drawing people and there are times best to avoid people. Finding the
correct balance is what can ensure prosperity.
There are two main types of skunk-spotted and striped. The striped is the most common and
most easily recognized. It actually has a double stripe that runs from its head to its
tail. This stripe, whether single or double, is an indication of the active flow of the
kundalini or life force. (The kundalini has ties to the sexual energies and to
the life force that is active in every aspect of our life processes.) In individuals with
this totem, the kundalini is usually already active. Skunk shows up at a time to amplify
and to teach the control and use of this life force more effectively.
Skunks are usually quite silent, so it is good for those with this totem not to blow
their own horns. It will backfire and only serve to push others away. Sit back and let
others do the noticing for you. 
Skunks are very adaptable and this is what those with this totem must also learn. Skunk
can teach you when its best to be noticed and how to go about it most effectively. They
are carnivorous, but they will eat almost anything, particularly insects, berries, and
fruit. Skunk does its hunting at night.
When skunk shows up as a totem you are going to have opportunities to bring out new
respect and self esteem. It indicates lessons and times associated with increased
sensuality physically, sexually, psychically, and spiritually. Examine your self-image.
Remember that people are going to notice you. How they notice and remember can be
controlled by you. This is what skunk can help teach.


