Spider
~~~~~~
(Adapted from excerpts from Animal Speak by Ted Andrews.)

The spider has shown up in myth and lore throughout the world. 
Usually its symbolism has been very similar wherever it is used.
In India it was associated with Maya, the weaver of illusion. It 
has had connections to the Fates in Greek mythology and the Norns 
in Scandinavian lore - women who would weave, measure, and cut 
the threads of life. To the Native Americans, spider is grandmother, 
the link to the past and the future. Spider teaches you to maintain 
a balance - between past and future, physical and spiritual, male 
and female. Spider teaches you that everything you now do is weaving 
what you will encounter in the future. In the tarot deck is a card 
- The Wheel of Fortune. This is a card that has to do with rhythms 
- the rise and fall, the flow and flux. It is linked to the energies 
of honor and fame, and the sensitivities necessary to place ourselves 
within the rhythm of Nature. Meditation upon this card would be 
beneficial for anyone with the spider as a totem.

The spider awakens creative sensibilities. It weaves a web of intricate 
and subtle fabric, as if to remind us that the past always subtly 
influences the present and future. Often the webs will take a spiral 
shape, the traditional form of creativity and development. The spider 
found within the web reminds us that we are the center of our own
world. The ancient mystery schools had one precept inscribed above 
their portals: "Know Thyself and Thou Shalt Know The Universe!" Spider 
reminds us that the world is woven around us. We are the keepers and 
the writers of our own destiny, weaving it like a web by our thoughts, 
feelings and actions. The spider, because of its characteristics, has 
come to be associated by mystics and in mythology in three predominant 
expressions of magic. The first is magic and energy of creation. It is 
a symbol of creative power, reflected in its ability to spin a silken
web. It is also associated with assertiveness of that creative force, 
of keeping the feminine energies of creation alive and strong. This 
has ties to the characteristics of some spiders, i.e. the female black 
widow, which will kill and eat the male after mating has exhausted it.

The third predominant magic of the spider is associated with its spiral 
energy, the links with the past and the future. The spiral of the web, 
converging at a central point, is something to be meditated upon by 
those with this totem. Are you moving toward a central goal or are you 
scattered and going in multiple directions? Is everything staying focused? 
Are you becoming too involved and/or self-absorbed? Are you focusing on 
others' accomplishments and not on your own? Are you developing resentment 
because of it - for yourself or them?

Spider is the guardian of the ancient languages and alphabets. Every 
society has had myths about how the different languages and alphabets 
were formed. The Chinese alphabet is attributed to Ts'ang Chien, the 
god with the dragon face and four eyes. He formed it from the patterns 
of the stars, the marks on the back of the turtle and the footprints of
birds in the sand. The Norse god Odin created the Runic alphabet after 
hanging upon the great tree of life for nine days and nights. After this 
time, the twigs fell off and spelled our certain formulas and words.

To many, there was an alphabet even more primordial. It was formed by 
the geometric patterns found within spider's web. To many this was the 
first true alphabet. This is why spider is considered the teacher of 
language and the magic of writing. Those who weave magic with the written 
word probably have a spider totem. If spider has come into your life, ask 
yourself some important questions. Are you not weaving your dreams and 
imaginings into reality? Are you not using your creative opportunities? 
Are you feeling closed in or stuck as if in a web? Do you need to pay
attention to your balance and where you are walking in life? Are others 
out of balance around you? Do you need to write? Are you inspired to write 
or draw and not following through? Remember that spider is the keeper of 
knowledge of the primordial alphabet. Spider can teach how to use the 
written language with power and creativity so that your words weave a web 
around those who would read them.


