As you will learn, your character's characteristics are largely governed
by your racial selection.  Territorial selection serves as a modifier
on these natural stats.  So in essence, you are choosing a sub-race
here that will slightly offset the characteristics of your racial norm. 

Territorial choice does NOT grant any additional skills within the
game.  However, some skills may be impacted directly or indirectly
by your choice of background.  The chief effect of territorial
choice is to modify your natural racial stats.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Gutter Goblin: A city dweller.  Heavy contact with others has raised your social
skills and made you wise in the ways of the city.  You are well educated, for a
goblin, but city living has proved to be unhealthy.  Your high amount of
social interaction has desensitized you and made you less focused.

Garrison Goblin: You have lived most of your life in a fort or war camp.  Social
interactions have been in smaller groups, certainly not on a scale with that
of an urbanite, but you have also managed to avoid much of the penalties
that go along with urban living.  You are reasonably educated.

Outcast Goblin: You were shunned by your tribe early in life.  You had only
minimal contact with others, but this only strengthened your individualism.
You are strong but know how to survive.  You know you are capable of taking
care of yourself, largely because that is all you have ever done.

Rock Goblin: Your tribe comes from some of the most rugged territories in
the known realms.  Your life has been full of hardship and solitude.
You are relatively unacquainted with the ways of civilization.  High
on stamina, but weak on social skills.

Forest Goblin: You were born in a logging camp with other goblins and orcs.
You spent spent much of your early years moving around, stripping the forest of
lumber and resources.  You have both an appreciation of the power that can be
extracted from nature, and how to subsist in the woods.  You have some contact
with other civilizations, but your interactions is mostly superficial.

