As you will learn, your character's characteristics are largely governed
by your racial selection.  Territorial selection serves as a modifier
on these natural stats.  So in essence, you are choosing a sub-race
here that will slightly offset the characteristics of your racial norm. 

Territorial choice does NOT grant any additional skills within the
game.  However, some skills may be impacted directly or indirectly
by your choice of background.  The chief effect of territorial
choice is to modify your natural racial stats.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Urban:  A city dweller.  Your parents left the simple life behind to move
to a large urban center.  Your family is probably highly involved in 
politics, trade or commerce.  You benefitted from the resources in the
city, and became well educated.  However, you have become somewhat detached
from the traditional hobbit way of life, and have also suffered from the
ennui that besets all urban dwellers.

Shire Hobbit: You have had the average hobbit upbringing in a typical
hobbit shire.  Your family was surrounded by many other hobbit families,
and you are well versed in the traditions and beliefs of your race.  You
have had good access to the facilities of civilization.

Grassland Hobbit: Your parent's wanderlust led them through the rolling
plains and grasslands of The World, where they ultimately settled down.
You did not grow up in total seclusion, for there were a handful of other
hobbit communities, as well as communities of other civilized races, 
scattered around.  However, neither were the accouterments and trappings
of civilization easily accessible.

Hill Hobbit: Your parent's wanderlust led them through the rolling hills
and steppes of The World, where they ultimately settled down.  Few other
civilized folks lived nearby, and you seldom saw anyone but those you
lived with.  You learned to make due, and to do without for many things.
Nevertheless, you remember your upbringing as a happy time and you are
highly self-sufficient as a result.

Woodland Hobbit: Your parent's wanderlust led them through the lush forests
of The World, where they ultimately settled down.  Your folk turned to
hunting, logging and other trade based on the products of the forest.  You
had minimal contact with others, mostly those that had similar professions,
or those that your family would need contact with in the normal course
of commerce.  Your learning came mostly from your other family members, and
that that you discovered on your own.  You had a healthy lifestyle.

Maritime Hobbit: Your parent's wanderlust led them through the low-lying
coast-lands of The World, where they ultimately settled down.  Your family
took to fishing, or was otherwise engaged in maritime activities.  As
with most that take to the sea, your family took to bonding with others
to accomplish shared goals, and you had good contact both with others of
your own kind, as well as those of other races.  Only during the off-season
did you have the opportunity for a formal education, but your healthy
living kept you occupied and content.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most hobbit tribes are civilized, although a small number have shunned
contact with the Civilized Races, and are thus regarded as wild tribes.
Wild tribes often differ in characteristics from those of their
civilized brethren due to long-time genetic inbreeding (and in some
cases, cross-breeding with other wild races).  Wild hobbit tribes vary
in disposition and characteristic, some are merely xenophobic, while
others have allied with dark forces and are fundamentally opposed to
the existence of all of civilization.  Some wild tribes are such just
because of political due to their location.

The Kendar tribes are the most notable amongst the wild tribes.  Little is
known about this reclusive society, and contact with them is often dangerous.

Players are not permitted to play members of the wild races due to the
fact that they would be unwelcome within the bounds of civilization.

