As you will learn, your character's characteristics are largely governed
by your racial selection.  Territorial selection serves as a modifier
on these natural stats.  So in essence, you are choosing a sub-race
here that will slightly offset the characteristics of your racial norm. 

Territorial choice does NOT grant any additional skills within the
game.  However, some skills may be impacted directly or indirectly
by your choice of background.  The chief effect of territorial
choice is to modify your natural racial stats.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Villager: While no ogre clan has yet moved into a major urban center,
this is about as close as they have come.  You were born to one of the
ogre clans that has had long contact with the other Civilized Races.
For an ogre, you had excellent access to education and medical facilities,
and the traditions of ogredom have been left firmly behind.

Plains Ogre: You were born to a nomadic ogre clan, that in ancient times
hunted the great plains of The World.  In recent times, hardship had beset
your clan as the resources of the plains became more scarce.  To survive,
your clan made contact with surrounding clans, and began primitive barter
that ultimately led to begrudging acceptance of the ways of the Civilized
Races.  Your upbringing was fairly average, and you had equal contact
with those clansman that advocated the advantages of the Civilized Races,
and those that advocated a return to the old ways.

Hill Ogre: Born to one of the many small pockets of ogredom that roam the
many hills of The World, most of your fellow clansmen were content in
their wild lifestyle.  However, your clan leader had become enticed by
the advantages of Civilization, and decreed a change in behavior that none
would challenge.  You were taught the traditions of your clan despite the
fact that the clan leader has required they be set aside.  While many of
your other clansmen would revert to their wild behavior at their first
opportunity, you have also seen your leader's greater vision and have become
on of the truly civilized ogres.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Ogre races are the most recent addition to those of the Civilized Races.
In fact, the great majority of ogre clans remain wild and it is only those
clans that have had long exposure and contact that opted to formerly join
with the Civilized Races when the opportunity presented.  The wild ogre
clans may differ in characteristics from those of their civilized brethren
due to long-time genetic inbreeding.  Additionally, they tend to vary in
disposition and characteristics; some are merely xenophobic, while others
remain completely primitive in nature.

Players are not permitted to play members of the wild races due to the
fact that they would be unwelcome within the bounds of civilization.

