As you will learn, your character's characteristics are largely governed
by your racial selection.  Territorial selection serves as a modifier
on these natural stats.  So in essence, you are choosing a sub-race
here that will slightly offset the characteristics of your racial norm. 

Territorial choice does NOT grant any additional skills within the
game.  However, some skills may be impacted directly or indirectly
by your choice of background.  The chief effect of territorial
choice is to modify your natural racial stats.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Urban: A city dweller.  You were born to a family that had left the
traditional tribal lifestyle behind, and moved to an urban center.  Your
family was most likely involved in trade, or politics, and encouraged
you to take advantage of the contact with other races, and the other benefits
of civilization.  You have become disassociated from the traditions of
elven life, but have replaced them with the accouterments of city-life.

Tribal Elf:  Your life has been fairly normal for an elf, having been born
in a modest size elven village.  Surrounded by elves from your own family,
and those that had banded with yours into your tribe, you had good access
to both education, and the traditions of your people.  Your people have felt
the push of civilization, and have slowly stopped practicing some of the
more backward rites in the name of progress.

Plains Elf:  You were born to a nomadic or semi-nomadic tribe of elves.
You grew up wandering from point to point living in harmony with the
nature around you, taking from it what you and your tribe needed, and giving
back what was required.  You had limited contact with those outside your
band, but learned all that you needed to know from the other members of
your tribe.

Snow Elf: You were a member of one of the most rugged of the civilized elven
tribes, living in the extremes of the arctic tundra.  Life was never easy,
but the tribe survived.  You were closely attuned to the ways of nature,
and knew how to find game and other necessities of life.  Your contact with
those outside your small tribe was extremely limited.  A good deal of
snow elf tribes, although not your own, have become wild and are shunned
by the Civilized Races.

Wood Elf: You were born to one of the oldest of the elven tribes, one that
could trace its lineage back to some of the original Tribes.  They taught 
you traditions that are older than some other races have existed, but
they also gave you a healthy respect both for nature and the current
ways of The World.  Most of the wood elven tribes, including your own,
have integrated well and fully with the Civilized Races, although a handful
of Wood Elven tribes have gone wild.

Sea Elf:  Sea Elves are traditionally quite wild, highly allied with the
Drow tribes, and avoid contact with the Civilized Races.  Your own race
was atypical and splintered from those of other Sea Elf tribes, choosing
instead the more peaceful ways of the Civilized Races.  You have a good 
assortment of knowledge about marine animals and the ways of the ocean.
Your contact with others has been limited as few amongst the Civilized
Races trust the Sea Elves, and those that do want contact are often of
questionable character.

Recluse: You were born to parents that had been ostracized from some other
tribe.  You were raised by your small, immediate family, and had little
contact with anyone else.  Life was frequently hard, but you learned to fend
for yourself.  You are highly confident in your own abilities.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most elven tribes are civilized, although a small number have shunned
contact with the Civilized Races, and are thus regarded as wild tribes.
Wild tribes often differ in characteristics from those of their
civilized brethren due to long-time genetic inbreeding (and in some
cases, cross-breeding with other wild races).  Wild elf tribes vary
in disposition and characteristic, some are merely xenophobic, while
others have allied with dark forces and are fundamentally opposed to
the existence of all of civilization.  Some wild tribes are such just
because of political due to their location.

The Drow tribes are the most notable amongst the wild tribes.  Little is
known about their subterranean society, and contact with them is often
dangerous.

Players are not permitted to play members of the wild races due to the
fact that they would be unwelcome within the bounds of civilization.
