As you will learn, your character's characteristics are largely governed
by your racial selection.  Territorial selection serves as a modifier
on these natural stats.  So in essence, you are choosing a sub-race
here that will slightly offset the characteristics of your racial norm. 

Territorial choice does NOT grant any additional skills within the
game.  However, some skills may be impacted directly or indirectly
by your choice of background.  The chief effect of territorial
choice is to modify your natural racial stats.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Urban: A city dweller.  You were born to a family that had left the
traditional tribal lifestyle behind, and moved to an urban center.  Your
family was most likely involved in trade, or politics, and encouraged
you to take advantage of the contact with other races, and the other benefits
of civilization.  You have become disassociated from the traditions of
dwarven life, but have replaced them with the accouterments of city-life.

Villager: You have had an average dwarven upbringing, growing up in a
mid-sized village.  Life was fairly unremarkable.  Access to both educational
and medical facilities was possible, and you are well versed in the
traditions of your people.

Hill Dwarf: You were born in a small, dwarven mining village that worked the
surrounding hillsides for their mineral contents.  There were few other
civilized outposts nearby, so contact was somewhat limited, yet your solid
dwarven upbringing kept you from becoming bored (mostly by keeping focused
on gold, beer, gold, and gold).

Mountain Dwarf: Your family was incredibly fortunate, having discovered
a large mineral vein that would not run out for many years, and you and your
family had been working it throughout your entire upbringing.  The work was
as rigorous as it was remote, but from it you learned the finer points of
dwarven mining techniques.

Recluse: Your family had been ostracized from normal dwarven society, and
raised you on the fringes of civilization.  Due to their shame, you
seldom met anyone but your immediate family, and had little contact with
others.  This taught you to be highly self-reliant, and equally
self-confident.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most dwarven tribes are civilized, although a small number have shunned
contact with the Civilized Races, and are thus regarded as wild tribes.
Wild tribes often differ in characteristics from those of their
civilized brethren due to long-time genetic inbreeding (and in some
cases, cross-breeding with other wild races).  Wild dwarf tribes vary
in disposition and characteristic, some are merely xenophobic, while
others have allied with dark forces and are fundamentally opposed to
the existence of all of civilization.  Some wild tribes are such just
because of political due to their location.

The Duergar tribes are the most notable amongst the wild tribes.  Little is
known about this reclusive society, and contact with them is often dangerous.

Players are not permitted to play members of the wild races due to the
fact that they would be unwelcome within the bounds of civilization.

