As you will learn, your character's characteristics are largely governed
by your racial selection.  Territorial selection serves as a modifier
on these natural stats.  So in essence, you are choosing a sub-race
here that will slightly offset the characteristics of your racial norm. 

Territorial choice does NOT grant any additional skills within the
game.  However, some skills may be impacted directly or indirectly
by your choice of background.  The chief effect of territorial
choice is to modify your natural racial stats.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Urban: A city dweller.  Heavy contact with others has raised your social
skills, but the constant interactions have taught you to look out for #1 at
the cost of your soul.  You have had excellent access to educational
facilities, but city living has proved to be unhealthy.  You have had
lots of stimulation in your life, and as such, your attention span is
somewhat restricted.

Villager: You have lived most of your life in a modest village.  Social
interactions have been fair to good, certainly not on a par with that
of an urbanite, but you have also managed to avoid much of the penalties
that go along with urban living.  You have had reasonable access to
educational facilities.  On the whole, you are a typical human.

Plainsman: You grew up as part of nomadic or semi-nomadic family.  Your
extended family was ever-present, but there were few outsiders that you
ever saw.  Your aunts and uncles taught you and cared for you during
your youth.  You have learned the basics of survival in the wild and
have lived on the fringes of civilization.

Recluse: You were raised by a handful of people that were largely outcast,
for whatever reason, by society as a whole.  You had only minimal contact with
others, but this only strengthened your individualism.  You are highly self-
confident, and know you are capable of taking care of yourself, largely, 
because that is all you have ever done.  You have wasted little in your life.

Hillsperson: Your life was largely agrarian, either farming the tough
terrain, or tending to farm animals.  The place you call home does not
show up on any map, and consists of a handful of cottages, farmhouses,
and the occasional inn or store-front.  Day to day life was monotonous,
and there was always the worry about tomorrow.  You learned initiative
and follow-through in order to make ends meet, and more importantly,
you learned to help your neighbors in their time of need, for yours
might be just around the corner.

Mountaineer: You come from some of the most rugged territories that
humans call home.  Your life has been full of hardship and solitude.
You are relatively unacquainted with the ways of civilization.  High
on stamina, but weak on social skills.

Forester: You were born in a logging camp and spent much of your early
years moving around as regions got logged out and the camps moved on.
You have both an appreciation and an understanding of nature, for it
was that that your family subsisted.  From time to time, you helped with
bringing the logs to market, so have some familiarity with trade and
the other parts of civilization.

Mariner: Your parents, like those before them, were fishermen and they
taught you the ways of the sea.  There was always a degree of uncertainty
in your day to day life, but you learned to cope with it.  You are
familiar with all varieties of sailing vessels, and the bounty of the
ocean.
