As you will learn, your character's characteristics are largely governed
by your racial selection.  Territorial selection serves as a modifier
on these natural stats.  So in essence, you are choosing a sub-race
here that will slightly offset the characteristics of your racial norm. 

Territorial choice does NOT grant any additional skills within the
game.  However, some skills may be impacted directly or indirectly
by your choice of background.  The chief effect of territorial
choice is to modify your natural racial stats.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Urban: A city dweller.  You were born to a family that had left the
traditional tribal lifestyle behind, and moved to an urban center.  Your
family was most likely involved in trade, or politics, and encouraged
you to take advantage of the contact with other races, and the other benefits
of civilization.  You have become disassociated from the traditions of
gnomish life, but have replaced them with the accouterments of city-life.
gnome details not yet written

Villager: You were born in a typical gnome village, and had an unremarkable
childhood.  Gnomish communities tend to be highly communal, and you had
high contact with educational and medical facilities.  You grew up surrounded
by your fellow commune members, and were well informed of the gnome
traditions.

Hill Gnome: As a hill gnome, your commune was somewhat smaller and more
remote than was typical for a gnome community.  Nevertheless, you learned 
the ways and lore of your people, and even benefitted from the isolation
by learning to deal with adversity.

Swamp Gnome: By gnomish standards, your commune was excessively small
numbering only a few hundred gnomes.  It was located in a very inhospitable
part of The World, and each member of your commune was forced to give their
utmost to insure the survival of the whole.  This sometimes forced you to
adopt and use techniques that differed from those of traditional gnomish
society.

   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most gnome tribes are civilized, although a small number have shunned
contact with the Civilized Races, and are thus regarded as wild tribes.
Wild tribes often differ in characteristics from those of their
civilized brethren due to long-time genetic inbreeding (and in some
cases, cross-breeding with other wild races).  Wild gnome tribes vary
in disposition and characteristic, some are merely xenophobic, while
others have allied with dark forces and are fundamentally opposed to
the existence of all of civilization.  Some wild tribes are such just
because of political due to their location.

The Svirfneblin tribes are the most notable amongst the wild tribes.  Little
is known about this reclusive society, and contact with them is often
dangerous.

Players are not permitted to play members of the wild races due to the
fact that they would be unwelcome within the bounds of civilization.

