<c>How does training work on SneezyMUD?<z>

SneezyMUD is a discipline based mud.  That is, all skills, spells
and prayers are organized into broad categories called disciplines.  

You earn practices as you gain experience (the number of practices
you receive is based on your intelligence), and practices can be
spent learning about the discipline from the discipline trainers.
As your learning in the discipline increases, you gain new skills 
and improve the old ones.

Practicing a discipline increases your potential for learning the
various skills in the discipline.  For example, if you are a 
warrior and have put a few practices into your basic warrior class
discipline, you may see that you have the "kick" skill, but the
best proficiency you can achieve is "so-so".  As you add more
practices to the warrior class discipline, the more proficient you
can become at the skills in the discipline.

Most skills, spells, prayers and rituals are "learn-by-doing",
which means that in order to become better at your skills, you must
use them.  As you use your skills, you will receive alerts that you
have "honed" your skill.  This happens at a rate determined by your
wisdom.


<c>How do I spend my practices to learn disciplines?<z>

You must find the appropriate trainer for the discipline you wish
to train in.  For basic disciplines, you may use the "goto" command
to help you find your trainer.  Type HELP GOTO to learn more.

Once you are at the appropriate trainer, you can use the "practice"
command to spend your practices.  Type HELP PRACTICE to learn more.

The basic trainers are particular about only training those who are
diligent in keeping up on all their disciplines to become a well-
rounded adventurer.  At some point, the basic trainers will be unable
to teach you more and will require you to seek out the next trainer
for that discipline.  They will give you hints as to where the next
trainer lives.


<c>How many practices does it take to max out my disciplines?<z>

Basic disciplines and combat will give you one degree of increase for
each practice.  Thus, it takes 100 practices to max combat and 100 to 
max your class abilities.  The basic disciplines are required to 
continue on to more advanced disciplines.  Advanced disciplines require
less practices to max and give variable increase. 

The degree of increase in the advanced disciplines per practice point
spent is related to the present learning in the discipline.  At low
learnednesses, it is possible to go up 2-3% per practice spent, while 
once the discipline approaches maximum, it will be rare to get more 
than 1%.  The actual degree of increase is somewhat random, but geared 
toward 60 practices to get 100% in any discipline.

See also: PRACTICE, DISCIPLINES, LEARNING, INTELLIGENCE, WISDOM
Related Topics: CLASSES, GOTO
