This is a short description of the possible trap types for set traps as well
as a list of the items necessary to set each trap.

------
Type "fire":
  Door Trap Materials:      Flint, Sulphur, Trap Bag
  Container Trap Materials: Flint, Sulphur, Trap Bag
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Flint, Sulphur, Trap Bag
  Mine Trap Materials:      Flint, Sulphur, Trap Bag, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Flint, Sulphur, Trap Bag, Grenade Casing
  The victim will be hit by a small fiery blast.

Type "explosive":
  Door Trap Materials:      Flint, Sulphur, Hydrogen
  Container Trap Materials: Flint, Sulphur, Hydrogen
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Flint, Sulphur, Hydrogen
  Mine Trap Materials:      Flint, Sulphur, Hydrogen, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Flint, Sulphur, Hydrogen, Grenade Casing
  A massive explosion will destroy the trapped item, engulfing the victim in
  flame and spraying all occupants of the room with shrapnel.  For door traps,
  occupants on both sides of the door will be affected by the shrapnel.

Type "poison":
  Door Trap Materials:      Needle, Spring, Vial of Poison
  Container Trap Materials: Needle, Spring, Vial of Poison
  Mine Trap Materials:      Trap Canister, Spring, Contact Poison, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Trap Can., Spring, Contact Poison, Grenade Casing
  The oldest trap in the book, the poison-needle will induce poison in the
  hapless victim.  The mine and grenade variety of this trap uses a contact
  poison that is sprayed throughout a room when the trap canister detonates.

Type "sleep":
  Door Trap Materials:      Nozzle, Gas, Hose
  Container Trap Materials: Nozzle, Gas, Hose
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Nozzle, Gas, Hose
  Mine Trap Materials:      Nozzle, Gas, Hose, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Nozzle, Gas, Hose, Grenade Casing
  A sleep-inducing gas will surround the victim.

Type "acid":
  Door Trap Materials:      Nozzle, Bellows, Vial of Acid
  Container Trap Materials: Nozzle, Bellows, Vial of Acid
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Nozzle, Bellows, Vial of Acid
  Mine Trap Materials:      Trap Canister, Spring, Vial of Acid, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Trap Canister, Spring, Vial of Acid, Grenade Casing
  Bathes the victim in caustic acid, some of which will splash onto everyone
  in the room.  For door traps, occupants on both sides of the door will be
  coated.

Type "spore":
  Door Trap Materials:      Nozzle, Bellows, Fungus
  Container Trap Materials: Nozzle, Bellows, Fungus
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Nozzle, Bellows, Fungus
  Mine Trap Materials:      Trap Canister, Spring, Fungus, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Trap Canister, Spring, Fungus, Grenade Casing
  Spreads a plume of disease-inducing spores throughout the room.

Type "frost":
  Door Trap Materials:      Nozzle, Hose, Liquid Frost
  Container Trap Materials: Nozzle, Hose, Liquid Frost
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Nozzle, Hose, Liquid Frost
  Mine Trap Materials:      Nozzle, Hose, Liquid Frost, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Nozzle, Hose, Liquid Frost, Grenade Casing
  A hyper-chilled liquid will spray into the room, inducing great damage.
  The victim will be engulfed by the frosty air, while others may simply be
  touched by it.  For door traps, occupants on both sides of the door will be
  affected.

Type "spike":
  Door Trap Materials:      Spike, Spring, Tripwire
  Container Trap Materials: Spike, Spring, Tripwire
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Spike, Spring, Tripwire
  A large, sharpened spike will spring outward, impaling the hapless victim.

Type "bolt":
  Mine Trap Materials:      Tubing, Compressed Gas, Box of Bolts, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Tubing, Comp. Gas, Box of Bolts, Grenade Casing
  Dozens of tiny, sharpened spikes will fly outward, puncturing all nearby.

Type "blade":
  Door Trap Materials:      Tripwire, Spring, Razor Blade
  Container Trap Materials: Tripwire, Spring, Razor Blade
  Similar to the spike trap, this one uses a slashing blade to slice into
  the victim.

Type "disk":
  Mine Trap Materials:      Trap Canister, Spring, Razor Disks, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Trap Canister, Spring, Razor Disks, Grenade Casing
  Flings tiny sharpened disks in all directions to slice the foes nearby.

Type "hammer":
  Door Trap Materials:      Concrete Blocks, Frame Wedge, Tripwire
  The poor man's blade trap.  Large weights fall or are thrust at the victim
  to pummel them.  Limited damage, but much cheap to construct.

Type "pebble":
  Container Trap Materials: Tubing, Compressed Gas, Trap Pebbles
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Tubing, Compressed Gas, Trap Pebbles
  Mine Trap Materials:      Tubing, Compressed Gas, Trap Pebbles, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Tubing, Compressed Gas, Trap Pebbles, Grenade Casing
  A cheap variation of the bolt and blade trap, the pebble trap uses ordinary
  pebbles for the damage, and even replaces the explosive canisters with less
  expensive tubing and compressed gas apparatus.  It doesn't do much damage,
  but its cheap cost makes it attractive to the thief on a budget.

Type "power":
  Door Trap Materials:      Tripwire, Pentagram, Refined Athanor
  Container Trap Materials: Tripwire, Pentagram, Refined Athanor
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Tripwire, Pentagram, Refined Athanor
  Mine Trap Materials:      Crystalline, Pentagram, Ref. Athanor, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Crystalline, Pentagram, Ref. Athanor, Grenade Casing
  An incredibly destructive trap, the motive force relies on magic.  The victim
  will suffer great damage, while other occupants of the room will also be
  affected.  Door traps will affect members on both sides of the door.

Type "teleport":
  Door Trap Materials:      Tripwire, Pentagram, Blink Powder
  Container Trap Materials: Tripwire, Pentagram, Blink Powder
  Arrow Trap Materials:     Tripwire, Pentagram, Blink Powder
  Mine Trap Materials:      Crystalline, Pentagram, Blink Powder, Mine Casing
  Grenade Trap Materials:   Crystalline, Pentagram, Blink Powder, Grenade Casing
  A non-destructive trap that causes the victim to be transported to some
  far off land.
